Please stand by... for the valley transportation authorityChair hendricks.. good evening, the board of directors meeting of the valley transportation authority iscalled to order.5:34 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Thank you. we have a quorum, chair. Thank you.Chair hendricks.. thank you. next we'll move on to orders of the day. First, I would like to mention how this tragedy last week has broken our hearts and I can't imagine the pain that this has caused to family members. Although we are mourning right now, we have to balance to meet for items that can't be deferred because they are time snsitive. We have looked at our agenda and condensed it as much as we can. I will try to go through it. There are many things we changed. We are going to remove from today's agenda and move to future board meetings, the following items. Agenda item 4. 2, the silicon valley bartphase 2 project, conference with legal council existing litigation. These will be deferred to the June 18th board meeting. Agenda item 6. 7. 6. 7. Action item - authorize the general manager to issue a competitive request for offer (rfo) for the gilroy transit center affordable housing project in conjunction with the santa clara county office of supportive housing 7. 1. Action item - approve the employment agreement betweensanta clara valley transportation authority (' vta' ) and carolyn marie gonot as vta's general manager/ceo.Fiscal year 2021 statement of revenue and expenses forecast. (verbal report) 7. 3. Action item - adopt aresolution approving the fiscal years 2022 and 2023 biennial budget for the period July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2023. Design development framework (ddf) for the transitoriented development (tod) site locatedon the vta block in downtown san jose. Agenda. And and I want to ask for your patience for public comment and there is also public comment at the end of the agenda. I hope my colleagues are okay with those changes hat I have proposed and are there any comments from my colleagues? I have to see the raised hands. Just a moment. I'm not eeing any other comments or questions from my colleagues. I think we want to go now to see if there is any public comments or do I do that here or does it come later? You can take up public comment under orders of the day.5:37 PMMember blankley.Yes, while item 6.7 has been moved, I still want to say that transient oriented development that phase 1 alone, 50 units is expected to generate only 87 bus trips and 26 to caltrain and none of which add bus lines to improve transportation to gilroy residents and removing parking. Housing will consume pride park & ride land and that is dependent on those ability to park & ride and should be used with that in mind as a keytransportation hub for bus and rail in all directions. At only 471 existing spaces. The future of vta and to build a parking structure to maintain the parking potential that exist today on vta's owned land, gilroy and residents will be dependent from this service from vta and santa clara. We need housing and transportation too. Thanks, vta.5:39 PMChair hendricks: thank you. I see the public has their hands raised and this is for ublic comment on orders of the day.Clerk: this is for orders of the day public comment. First, we have tessa. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I guess I heard the board member mention that public comment will be t theend of the meeting. The order of the day is in regards to how we are really minimizing public comment and how problematic that is in our democracy and that when we are dealing with so many crisises that we need to have the public comment earlier in the day. And that sets the agenda for our representatives, city of of san jose is saying - the solutions come from the bottom up and that's where you are not allowing, not promoting public comment is really a detriment to our survival as we are such in a grip of so many crisises that we need the public comment as critical.5:40 PMClerk: next we have a member from atu. Please begin when you are ready. Public speaker:5:41 PMCan you hear me?Yes. we can.My name is is shane white. the president of local unit and I rise in support to support our brothers and sisters from local 265 where our hearts have been broken in many pieces and we have to prepare for funerals and can you imagine, the word no, none of us can. Can you remember the retroactive pay to help pay in the process. John, I hope you are hearing this and I hope you will be. I was there at the vigil. It's time to pay for our workers. I look to you, cindy and joe simitian. It's ime to pass this. If they don't deserve it, I don't know who does.5:42 PMChair hendricks.. before we go on, this is just on orders of the day. The public comment section is coming.So, please choose where you want to actually make your comments.Next speaker, please.Clerk: roland followed by katherine. Roland, you May begin when you are ready. Please accept the unmute.Public speaker:Can you hear me?Yes, we can.5:43 PMSo my comment relates to item 6. 7. I would like to let everybody know that lives south is here with morgan hill. On 7. 6, my recommendation to you is to reinstate rapid transit and which got us into the themess that e are in. The last public comment, that it would have dictated that t today's meeting that you take public comment, adjourn in memory of our lost colleagues, and table the rest of the meeting to afuture meeting. Thank you.Clerk: next, we have katherine. You May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, this is katherine, with the people's transit alliance. I'm speaking against changing the public comment to the end of theagenda. By my understanding, I don't understand our doing this. We prepared comments to be made at this time and this seems like a real violation of just basic rules f transparency to the public and I really recommend you not make these last minute changes without any notice in the future and I just think thisis highly inappropriate and highly unprofessional to take this measure right now. Thank you.5:44 PMChair hendricks.. before we go on, I will make these comments. We are not moving public comments to the episode of the meeting. We are only limiting for how long public comments will go on. If we have more public comments allotted at that time, those speakers will be taken at the end of the meeting.Next speaker, please.5:45 PMClerk: mcx weblo. you May speak when you are ready. Please accept the unmute. Public speaker: hello, my name is nathan, I too am with the transit alliance. I would like to echo what the last speaker said. I think it's completely inappropriate for this board to hold 15 minutes of public comment now and have the rest ofthe public comments heard at the end of the meeting. All public comments should be heard now given that that was on the agenda and I think this is a violation of public transparency to change this agenda at thelast minute when there are so many public comments slated to be made. Please do not hear public comment at the end of the meeting and please hear all the public comment at the beginning of the meeting like it was listed on the agenda.5:46 PMClerk: next we have jody, followed by caesar and then blair. Public speaker: yes, I would also agree with the earlier speakers that by hearing public comment at the beginning, it can inform the board members of what the public is feeling, what the pulse is and how they can respond. The public [lost connection]Clerk: jody, it looks ike you muted yourself. Chair, i'm going to move on to the next speaker.Okay.Caesar, blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Please accept the unmute. Public speaker: hi, thank you. Blair bateman here. It's a good ideal for us to give thoughts to each other during these difficult times around vta nd could eventually help us better return to our regularly scheduled of practices with thecommunity. Good luck to ourselves at this time for bringing our fears and failures and alone time in the morning where we can all have back in the sunlight and what could be brought to community practices. I hope that brings more dialogue in the ext month and I hope we can continue the work of the next several months as the community is able to more honestly and able to talk with vta on the next process.5:47 PMChair, before I go on, elaine would like to speak.5:48 PMYes, just a reminder to the public who have their hands raised, in case you joined us right now, we are on tem 2. 2. The item for public comment is item 3. So you are aware in case you just joined us. Thank you.Public speaker: good evening, can everybody hear me?Yes.I would like to echo the comments that were made. I will speak on the proposed budget. I don't know what could possibly be shortened. We need to just honor those who have been lost unfortunately on 5/26.Let's be sure we handle what other business can be handled at a later time. Thank you.5:49 PMClerk: next, we hav we have ally.u May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: hi, my name issal issalli, a transit rider. And that was well before this last massive shooting. The workers gave their lives to our community before the pandemic rage. All transit workers[inaudible]5:50 PMPublic speaker: my name is jimmy, transit alliance. I'm here to ask to give transit workers hazard pay. As you heard from a previous member of the public, they have been working. They have been point in gravedanger. You hear about this all the time. We are talking about heroes and we don't treat them that way. I really think you need to move your priorities around and igure out how to give people what they deserve.Thank you.5:51 PMThank you for clarifying this public comment period. I'm katie with people's alliance. I'm asking that you give workers this pay and it's sad that workers have had covid and two passed away. Transit workers make our buses rn. There is no vta without their labor. They are the most crucial part of this transit system. This agency owes them for their loyalty. You can't reasonably say that you have no money or this criticalpurpose. Please, let's provide vta workers for the compensation they have rightfully earned and deserved.Thank you very much for your time.5:52 PMClerk: chair, that completes public comment.Okay, thank you. tonight's meeting will be adjourned in memory of our fallen vta members. May I have a motion to approve the orders of the day.Motion to approve orders of the day.Second.If there are no other comments or questions, can we please have a roll call vote?5:53 PMClerk: sure. [roll call]Motion passed. thank you.Chair hendricks.. next I will call on the fallen vta members. I would like to as a board make that formal recognition as well. Before I do that, I want to acknowledge and thank the many many organizations, agencies and groups that have reached out to support vta in this very difficult time. In particular, I would like to thank ac transit and sand transfor their mutual aid and for the vta communication staff in thecounty of santa clara who have been tremendously helpful in offering to help during this very difficult situation. A heartfelt thank you to everyone who reached out, supported and offered their services and much more. It's really more than I can say and we appreciate more than you know. I also want to share that speaker pelosi and congressman offered their condolences. The next slides are about ur fallencoworkers. Abdolvahab alaghmandan, was 63 years old and at vta and attended into the -- night school.He was laid to rest this afternoon in the chapel leaving behind his wife and two sons. 29 year old, adrian balleza, the youngest of the victims. He worked at vta for seven years. He warned his brother not to come to work. Described by light superintendent, a gentle person. Funeral services for adrian is scheduled Monday June 7th at gilroy gardens. Alex ward fitch, 49 year old. Father of three children, worked for vta for nine years. Alex lived his life with gusto and created a perfect team. Alex was the last of the nine to pass way after being taken to the hospital who died later that night on the 26. Alex will be laid to resttuesday, June 8th. Jose dejesus hernandez, 35 years old and a second generation vta employee. His father worked here as well. Jose worked for vta for nine years. His passion included singing and he loved spending time in lake tahoe. Friends say jose would give you his shirt off his back. Funeral arrangements for jose are pending. Lars kepler lane. At 53 years old, he worked for light rail. He worked for vta for 20 years. Remembered as someone with a great sense of humor, with three children and severalgrandchildren. Lars spent a better part of his career working on cars as a mechanic at vta. Lars will be laid to rest Friday June 4th. Paul delacruz megia, 41 years old. An assistant superintendent with an infectious smile. He warned coworkers. He is remembered as a friendly hardworking colleague who started his career at vta as a bus operator working his way through several positions. Funeral arrangements. Timothy michael romo. Like paul and michael, he worked through the investment partnership with atu at mission college. Timothy worked for vta for 4 years. He will be laid to rest on the 7th. We heard michael, the closechildhood friend of city council member recall peralez. Michael worked for vta for 10 years and was 40 years old and worked on many cars. Funeral services for michael are pending. The last of the fallen ninecoworkers. Taptejdeep singh. 46 years old. Father to two children. He worked for vta for 7 years. He tried to warn others of the deadly attack. He had a love of sports, motorcycles, and known as someone who always paved the way to help others. Funeral services for taptejdeep singh is scheduled for June 6th. Now nomini will sing amazing grace. [ singing ] amazing grace. Thank you. Now we would like to ask for amoment of silence for colleagues that we will always remember. ( moment of silence )6:02 PMThank you, everyone. I have a few more comments to make. Now that we have mentioned the names of our fallen colleagues, I want to say what a terrible tragedy this has been to our family and our victims family. There is no way to describe this pain, sorrow of this tragedy of this event. I have come to realize inthe last few days that words alone are not sufficient to communicate with each other. I would like to assure the public, families and employees that vta is doing everything within our powers to assist the grievingfamilies and our grieving employees. We are very thankful to the outpouring of support from the public, other transit agencies and unions near and far who have reached out to offer our support. We are all veryappreciative. I can't go further without recognizing the first responders, the volunteers, our vta staff, county staff, ambulance staff, san jose fire, san jose police and sheriff personnel. Everyone kicked in right away to deal with the crisis. I want to call out the san jose officers who stopped the shooting. If that is not heroism, I don't know what is. They are the ones responsible for saving the lives of many. We are very proud of them. Excuse me. We are working to make sure our actions match our tone and action. The general manager has given direction and I fully support it that we should try and balance and balance is not really a good word for what I mean, but to try to balance and support the families and our employees and also providing service to our customers. We will air in supporting our families and employees. We willdo what is right for our public and the road we are navigating on. The vta senior leaders nd munileadership, this is to get feedback and the purpose to get feedback to fully support the employees and get feedback if we need to make adjustments. So far these meetings have been very productive. Also this afternoon, we just held a town hall meeting with staff and supervisors and we plan to have another town hall with staff. I just wanted to share a few words with you about this horrible event and what we are doing to assist the people. I do have one request for the public, when you are out and about and you see a vta employee or other transit worker, please give them a waive and a smile because a smile is a very powerful thing. In closing this section of the meeting, I believe many of you heard one of my comments last thursday. My family has this little thing where we write a haiku and I share them and it's one of y ways for coping with what's going on. Smiles are powerful. Give happiness to others, share much joy with them.6:07 PMWe are now going to move to public comment. Chappie, will you handle the public comments for me.Yes, sir, I will take it over. Okay, so e are moving to public comments.Clerk: I will call the next speaker. Blair, followed by john. Public speaker: hi, thank you. To try again with my speech. Sorry. It is our good idea and I deals and practices to bring good thoughts during these difficulttimes at vta and will help us better to return to our regularly scheduled practices, partners and routines s acommunity. I hope there can be an open dialogue with how to return light rail service to our everyday public in the next week instead of next month and I hope we can continue the good work of the past several months of vta staff and vta community persons have been talking more openly about the great practice of this meeting space. Thanks today. To the people of public comment, it has become a regular process that they allow public comment for only 15 minutes and have it at the end of the meeting. They have done that for months now. If you want to be upset about it, write them letters. They have a wholepublic meeting process they have been working on. It's time to ask them about this process.6:09 PMClerk: next we have joe. ou May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you, vta board for having me. Joe, private citizen, and I want to thank chair hendricks for his courageous words tonight and the same for cindy chavez and especially monica malone. But I really want to stress the importance of I was virtually at another transit board meeting. And you have to focus on your workers. They deserve hazard pay and they deserve it now respectfully. One last thing with a few second left, I hope the light rail can return safe and thank god for all the transit riders and # personnel.6:10 PMClerk: yvonne, go ahead and speak when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, my name is yvonne and a president of union at atu and support our brothers and support our courageous president john courtney.This preview tonight presented at the board has really summed up why transit workers particularly atu 265 at this time, certainly deserve retroactive hazard pay and they deserve all other support that is possiblyavailable to them. The tribute speaks o why atu 265 must have retroactive hazard pay and have it now. In my 41 yearsf being a member of the union, atu, I never thought I would live to see something like this and in john courtney's words, love each other, support each other and my condolences go out to everyone.6:11 PMClerk: paul, you May fin -- begin speaking when you are ready. Okay, will move on to the next speaker.Roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, Mr. Vice-chair. This public comment was the final stroke. I'm going to get straight to the point and to the change to an action, there is a reaction. For the change in performance evaluation. We started with the resignation of the cfo, theresignation of the ceo, the worse mass murders in the history of california and now a collapse of our entire transit system. In closing, I would like to remind everyone, that you know that it only takes one to takethe entire house down. Thank you and enjoy the rest of the meeting.6:13 PMNext speaker, please. please accept the unmute. Public speaker: tessa, please accept he unmute. Public speaker:Can you hear me?Yes.Good. well, I was just thinking that basically we've got to change everything basically and that the thing of not listening to the public is really critical, and I think we are seeing, hen we saw a lot of the protestingthat was happening is because our government is not listening. When we are seeing in our work places that people are going postal and having problems with their workplace, they are not listen to each other and that has to change and being an example of a lot of public discourse that we need to have and to put our public comment at the end is really a problem because people are scheduled to be here and you should be honoring that instead of saying you have to wait until the end of the meeting. So not only should we be giving them more pay, we have to change the system to make it a healthier system.6:14 PMClerk: simon, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello, everyone. I'm simon, a resident of campbell for six 1/2 years and neighbor oand speaking in their capacity tonight. My heart goes out to the entire family. Having been here for almost seven years, vta is a part of my life nd so many people from the operation staff and all that are great people that have kept me going through times that were good and times that were bad and I will still e here to support everyone and the people that really run this great system. Once again, my heart goes out to everyone. Thank you.6:15 PMClerk: thank you.Clerk: next we have arlenea. public speaker: hello, thank you, everyone, for having me. My name is arlenea wong and part of the student environment and equity for the college. Transit is important to me because sometimes I don't have access to a car and need transit to get around. My family and friends ride transit sometimes too. T's important for the people especially the low-income students and citizens and those who do not have access to a car. Any student at deanza college need transit to get to theirdestination and get to college. Although there ay not seem to be many passengers ut when transit is available, the number increases. I hope vta will restore our bus services so students can begin to take transit. Thank you.6:16 PMClerk:Next speaker, please. public speaker:Can you hear me?Yes.Good evening, board of directors, my name is miguel navarro. With local 265. I want to stand with my brother with local 265 during this horrific tragedy that happened last week. I'm urging the board to paythese members of atu local 265, retroactive hazard pay. They have been on the frontline since day one March of last year, moving the county of santa clara. The board has got to do the right thing and pay thesemembers what's right and what they deserve and what's coming to them during these horrible horrific times.6:17 PMThank you very much for your time.Before the next speaker speaks, the last speaker is bradley.Clerk:Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you to the chair, vta is important to me. I'm just an ordinary user of public transportation. My experience with vta is fairly short, but I grew up under the new york city subway and this is not new to me. I will submit to you that we are in the month of June and it's a high month and I ask that you be an agency that is willing to acknowledge that and I was fortunate to have met nuria fernandez a year ago and she showed me the welcome andinvited me to come. Now nury continuing to do eally great work in washington and I remember her as not just a great example of a leader, but also as a friend. This leadership and equity has to come from the top.I ask that you as a board practice equity and welcome.6:19 PMClerk:Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Please accept the unmute. Public speaker: hi, my name is josie and a member of vta. An essential workers became heroes in this role as grocery workers and transit workers and these workers have been risking their lives in order to provide vital services and this is why they are considered heroes. We hear this on radio announcements and vta hazard pay. I would encourage vta investing in these heroes. Provide back hazard pay, provide support for mental health services. Recognize the strain that a lot of these workers have been under throughout this whole year and pay compensation. We can celebrate our heroes as much as we want through publicannouncement, but by fighting back hazard pay, we support them in the material conditions of their lives. I would encourage vta board to follow through with that.6:20 PMClerk:Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: hi,Can you hear me? ?Yes.Hi, i'm nathan with vta alliance. It's time this board approve hazard pay for these employees. That time is now. This mass tragedy that occurred about a week ago affected the transit workers. The range of danger that these workers have faced has truly met no bounds, from the door to cases that were surging and telling employers that this would be safe to the tragedy that just happened. The workers must be compensated for the heroes that they are for back hazard pay. Please approve this.6:21 PMClerk:Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board, my name is keith brown, the president of alameda labor council. I'm here to offer my support and solidarity with our union siblings and atu 265. And just want to embrace them during this time, and also, to urge this board to offer our frontline transit workers a package of retroactive hazard pay and benefits, our frontline transit workers are the foundation of our communities. They have really provided an essential role during the pandemic and now more than ever, we must nvest in our frontline transit workers. So, please -- public speaker: good evening, board, this is eugene,6:22 PMCan you hear me?Yes.I agree with the speakers that I was moved by the presentation that vta made to honor our fallen vta workers that were unfortunately slaughtered on 5/26/21. That will stay with me forever like the gilroy festival massacre and shooting. Those are dates hat will live with me. I will address the need to pay these workers the hazard pay and benefits they need now. That is a separate action item. Again, I was moved with the presentation. Frankly, vta just needs to settle everything with the workers and give them whatthey need and just table the rest. I don't think anybody is in shape to continue. Thank you.6:24 PMChair hendricks.. vice-chair, thank you for taking that part of the meeting for me. We have one more speaker and we'll take that one speaker before we continue with the meeting. Public speaker: hi, i'm fromsan jose district 3 resident and want to express my love for the fallen and for members of atu 265 and want to say these frontline workers were the backbone and support for other frontline workers that orkedduring this crisis that we depended on who worked in groceries to make sure we stayed fed during this entire crisis. I totally support back hazard pay for our workers who were there for us and I again want toexpress my support and condolences for the fallen. Thank you very much for your time.6:25 PMHair hendricks.. thank you again to all of our speakers and thank you vice-chair for taking care of that section.I'm going to move on with the public hearing. Item 4. 1. 4. 1. Action item - adopt a resolution: (1) directing that the vta board, subsequent to a public hearing, has made a finding that the proposedfinancing to be undertaken by the peninsula corridor joint powers board (pcjpb) will result in significant public benefits and serve a public purpose; and (2) approve the proposed refinancing of the two revolving lines of credit, totaling $200 million. I will now formally open the hearing and the investment manager will present this item.6:26 PMI will read our script for the hearing. This is the board of the powers agency comprised of the city and county of san francisco and the san mateo transit district and silicon valley authority that will be a secured by fair box revenues and other revenues with two new credit facilities that will be primarily secured by the one eighth cents sales tax by the county in san francisco, san mateo county and santa clara county known as measure rr. The proposed financing is comprised of the revolving peninsula corridor electrification project persisting primarily between the rail between san francisco and san jose and not to compete $100million at any one time. And two, replacement of the existing revolving credit facility for working capital to not exceed $100 million at any time. Existing credit facilities mature on December 31, 2022. The new credit facilities no earlier than June 30th of 2024. Which will accommodate project cash flows. Pursuant to section 865. 5 of the government code, the joint powers agency such as the peninsula corridor joint powerboard May not take financing to construct ora -- acquire joint capital improvement unless the capital improvement is to be located and approved the financing and made the finding of significant benefit afterholding a public hearing at such member agency. This hearing is being conducted pursuant the a notice published May 21, 2021, in the mercury news and the county of santa clara in order to satisfy the public hearing requirements in government code section 65. 5. And a notice and now offer an opportunity for individuals to express their views concerning the financing of the capital improvements described above and proposed to be under taken by the peninsula corridor joint powers board. We should take public comment at this time.6:29 PMChair hendricks.. michael, thank you for that. The public hearing is now open. Go ahead and if you can let our public speakers in. Public speaker:Clerk: blair, you can begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, when you are speaking about this travel through the peninsula, whether it's true or not, the reports of the peninsula are an importantconcept that I think is relevant to this item and your budgeting. Will you need to do further reports for a possible av system in san jose that will need grade separation on the subject matter, connection andunderstanding and can there be a time that we consider the future of light ail in more positive terms and consider possibly av use for the underground train from diridon to the airport. Thank you very much for your time. And thanks.6:30 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please.Clerk: you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, chair hendricks. Let's stick to the basics here. I have always been a supporter of measure rr, and it's ime for a refresh. I'm seeing from my examination of this item, that this is about bringing finances up-to-date, to be able to securethem, using the stable source of revenue which is a broad base one eighth cent sales tax and when the economy is reopened, we are going to be collecting more sales tax. I believe this is worthy of support and oversight because I want a caltrain that is sustainable. I have seen other agency like new jersey transit, for example, they have had to go to trenton for more money. I think we need to do this. Thank you.6:31 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hank you, Mr. Chair. The only comment I have is that this is the latest example fter measure a and measure b of once again santa clara county committing to protect the interest of your taxpayers, specifically delivering what we were promised when we passed this tax measure. That concludes my remarks, thank you.6:32 PMChair hendricks: thank you. that looks like our last public comment. I will close that part of public comment. And we are with staff who are prepared to answer any questions of the board. To y colleagues, are there any questions?I have a question, chairperson.Go ahead, member montano.Thank you. are the interest rates going to be pretty low?This is derrick, the officer for the joint towers board. Yes, we are reducing the interest cost. This is secured by fare box revenues. That credit is in a category. This credit will be a subordinate pledge and we will have the standby fee by more than half and the proceeds that will be cut by more than one 1/2% based on the anticipated balance of one 1/2 million and we expect to save about $2. 5 million annually.6:33 PMChair hendricks.. are there any other questions of my colleagues? I'm going once and twice. Is there a motion?Motion to approve.A motion to approve from the vice-chair. Who was the second?6:34 PMDavis.Okay, so there is a motion and a second. I don't see any other comments or questions. Could you vote us?I wanted to clarify to close the hearing and adopt the russian resolution, correct?Yes.[roll call]Motion passes unanimously. thank you.Thank you very much.6:35 PMI'm going to move on to item 4. 2 that was deferred to our June 18th meeting. Now we'll move to committee reports. We do not have reports at this time. We are now at the consent agenda. This is going to be items 6. 1 through 6. 6, 6. 8 through 6. 17 and 6. 25, members of the board are able to ask about items on consent agenda. It looks like we have a couple of public speakers.Clerk: blair followed by roland. Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, this is blair. Can roland go first? I'm a bit busy right now.6:36 PMNow is your time.Okay, I want to say with light rail issues, I hope we can begin to develop and open with a more congenial feeling and be more positive about the purpose and with an it -- what it can accomplish for all of us. That said, you are working on transit issues on item 6. 7. There could be some technology issues here that just a reminder that open public policy is always helpful and can really help during this time and work through the issues of making a good practice for our community. Thank you.6:37 PMClerk: roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Thank you, Mr. Chair. what would like to talk about 7. 6 but that is being moved to consent agenda hich is the update on bart and we can't carry on like this. I mean you are about to approve another $2. 2 billion on top of the $800 million you have already allocated later on the agenda. And the time has come toreinstate the silicon valley rapid transit committee that you tabled a couple years ago, and actually first of all is to reinstate all the historical material that disappeared when you removed the meeting from the pull down menu on the vta portal. The ooner you do this, the better because those new members of the board have got absolutely no idea what they are going to be constructing nor half of it will not work. Thank you.6:38 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: thank you, chair hendricks. I'm going to talk about 6. 2, about bike lockers. That is very important and dear to me. A lot of people have bikes and they have their own bikes especially when bike share is not available when you are at and bike theft is a major problem in america.And having improved bike lockers and user friendly bike lockers, will help people make the last mile between their home and vta. I would rather people get on vta and also ride bicycles than get into cars because I believe that public transit helps with ur pollution and climate controls. I'm going on the record to say this item needs to go on with the rest of them. Thank you.6:39 PMChair hendricks.. thank you. i'm going to close public comment. As for my colleagues, would you like to add or pull something from the consent or does anyone have any recusals? Member simitian?Thank you. May I comment on item 6. 2, Mr. Chair?Absolutely.I want to direct my appreciation to member liccardo and vta staff not including Mr. Lawson for helping to bring this item to the consent calendar tonight and to you for managing that process as well under adifficult set of circumstances. I think we've gotten to a good place and found some common ground and did it at a very difficult time. Thank you all around. That's all I have to say.6:40 PMThank you, director. director liccardo?Thank you, I want to echo and for a place that we can all come together.Thank you.Hair hendricks.. if there are no other public comments, May I have a motion and second.So moved. chavez.Second.Was that second by constantine?Correct.We have a motion and second by chavez and constantine. Please vote us.6:41 PMClerkClerk: [roll call].Motion assed unanimously. thank you.Thank you, colleagues. that takes us to the regular agenda. First item 7. 1. 7. 1. Action item - approve theemployment agreement between santa clara valley transportation authority (' vta' ) and carolyn marie gonot as vta's general manager/ceo. Sylvester and general manager will provide the report.6:42 PMThank you and good evening members of the board. The request of the board is to accept the compensation. As you May recall as of May 1, the board pproved the position of marie gonot. The currentcontract is a five year agreement ending July 2026. The annual compensation is $350,000 and it includes $56,000 additional contribution to her 401k retirement account and $500 allowance. Finally, thisagreement has a 12 months severance. Appropriation for this expense is included in vta's annual budget. I will take questions if there are any from the board.6:43 PMChair hendricks.. thanks, sylvester. Thank you very much. First, I will take public comment. Do we have speakers?Clerk: ys, roland. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I have no idea who else you interviewed, but one question I would ask ms. Gonot as to why she left vta and since you don't have the answer, I will give you the answer. Ms. Gonot was bout to get fired and her project was out of control,three years late and $2 billion in debt and $1 billion in debt. The successor was fired exactly for the same reason six months later. You are hiring the worse general manager in vta's history. Thank you and enjoy the rest of the meeting.6:44 PMThank you.Clerk: blair, May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair bateman here. To quicklycomment, member chavez and -- are on the board. The caltrain board did some incredible work when we staed to go into covid. Along with the east bay community, I think they gave incredible ideas on how we can work on our budget into our future and given examples for our future and I want to thank them. They are a left right example of both sides of the political spectrum of how we can think and work and give us good choices. That's where we are at right now. Good luck on how we talk about federal funding and how you can make that open and transparent to the public. Nuria fernandez did a great job with that and explaining to the public after a difficult decision making. I hope you continue to do the same. Thank you.6:45 PMChair hendricks.. thank you, that looks like our last public speaker. I will close this public speaker section.Do my colleagues have any questions or comments? Is there a will of the board?6:46 PMSo moved, chavez.Second, liccardo.We have a motion and second by chavez and liccardo.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]6:47 PMMotion passes unanimously.Thank you very much. item 7.2 and were on the consent agenda. This takes us to item 7. 3. 7. 3. Action item - adopt a resolution approving the fiscal years 2022 and 2023 biennial budget for the period July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2023.Hank you, chair. we are going through a few slides and will respond to questions that came up in may.Franklin?Thank you, kathleen and good evening members of the board. Can we bring up the slide. This is a tabulation of the budget sources. This slideshows the highlights, the changes that we made for this recommended budget since the budget workshop that happened back in mid-april. The first one basically we increased the budget for fiscal year 2022, to allow certain positions of 100% of prepandemic levelsstarting July of 2021 should there be sufficient operators available o perform the work. That is the most important change on the recommended budget for consideration and adoption tonight. The second change for the budget is we are adding one new position in the legal department, aid entirely by the transient oriented development fund. The next is updated projections and labor charge for projects. Last but not least, is that we incorporated the changes and recommendations by the capital program committee and also those changed being approved by the board back on May 6, 2021, for vta capital budget and vtp forfuture allocations to measure b.6:49 PMChair hendricks: franklin, this is glen. We love seeing your face but your voice is breaking up. Can you turn your video off so we can hear you better.6:50 PMThank you. certainly. I will try to be loud and clear. There are no proposed changes and support the strategic plan.Next slide, please. we have taken an update on our projections for the next year which was included on theconsent agenda tnight. Basically the fiscal year 2022 projections on this graph. $26. 1 million which what we are projecting. And this is, i'm sorry p the small hiccup in the graphic. This is the projections that wehave discussed before. These are what we discussed in previous meetings. I want to spend a moment here to reassure the board hat the current recommended putting has incorporated changes andrecommendations from the capital program committee and also being approved on board at the last board meeting. Vta transit capital budget now is $212 million, $75. 4 million from our transit fund and for the vtptransportation program the current budget request is $228. 3 million and for removal of 2016 measure b in capacity base programs. These are the capital budget assumptions we have gone over in previous meeting.This is also being included in the amended budget booklet with all the budget operating and capital for all the eight funds included in our recommended budget. Last but not least, this is basically to remind everyone that we have gone through not just the budget workshop with the board, but also to committeemeetings, three advisory committee meetings, standing committee meetings in April and May and tonight we are recommending this budget for board's consideration and adoption. That concludes my presentation.6:53 PMThey were at the anf committee a couple comments and questions that I did want to address and they really centered around the different possibilities to strategically use the one time federal funds and one question was about essentially looking to pay down debt or to look at debt financing differently. We did goback and look at that. There weren't any opportunities this that area, but a second suggestion was to look at capital investments and a little bit different way than we have been and there are some interesting possibilities there and we are working to set up a meeting later this month. We are doing more work in that area and more to discuss. A third one was to look at investments in service bringing the plan to bring back 100% of service more quickly, as well as to look at beyond that level of service. We did start looking at some options in that area prior to the tragedy and we'll look at that as soon as it is appropriate and we are open for questions.6:54 PMThank you, kathleen and franklin. Let's go ahead and open our public hearing and go to our public speakers and then go back to our colleagues.Clerk: before our public comment, I want to note for the record that we received two public comment notes and could be found on our website and online packet. Joe, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. As I said earlier, I called on the vta to cover retroactive hazard pay for personnel and transit operators. And I also think it's important to vta not give into terrorism and immediately get the center back open and get it reopened. Again, I want to say to give azard pay to alltransit personnel and I hope that you will a lot some money for lobbyist to lobby for better gun laws. We do need to deal with this epidemic in this country. Thank you very much for your time.6:55 PMClerk: roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, so first of all, as mentioned, I encourage everybody on the board to at least take a grant out of 28 page report for transit.This is basically our future leaders giving you their $0. 02 about how we should be moving forward withtransit n silicon valley. With regard to the structural operating deficit. My suggestion is very simple, you arecontributing 20. 25% to measure a to transit operations. My recommendation is to increase that to 25% where we will be in a much better shape. Last time I had was right here where you are approving $2. 1 million for bart and 0 for caltrain. This is quite remarkable when you can't see that some of your formercolleagues confided that measure b would never have passed if you hadn't put caltrain on the ballot language. Thank you.6:57 PMClerk: eugene, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hey, everybody. This is eugene everybody and speaking on public comment from the two speakers. And especially given this 5/26and with this pandemic with Mr. Courtney who plans to get transit service back up 100% since the pandemic. Vta has $100 million to get managers and innovation. They have the money to give to hazard pay for bus drivers and light rail and other frontline personnel and some of the real people that kept silicon valley moving. If they have got this money to spend on this, I can imagine. You have the money to get public transit back up to what it was in march, before the pandemic. Thank you.6:58 PMClerk: blair, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, thank you. Blair bateman here. Thepresenter, very nicely offered the idea, you know, do we have budget money to pay for drivers in the next coming months. And that was very nice of him. He's asking he question, what are we going to do about the light rail and bus and bridge situation, I think. I think you have to address this and we have to be open about this subject and I think at this meeting with this difficult time, this makes it easy to talk about this subject matter. It's always difficult to talk about subjects after death experiences and horrible situations.Good luck on how we can just more openly talk about that. Transit has to be open soon at least in the next week and not in the next month, please. Thank you.6:59 PMClerk: kevin, you May egin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board members, my name is kevin mott. That gap does hide a lot of things about how much money from revenue from the various budgets to capital. Vta despite making the allocation for the service doesn't have a plan to do so and as all of our economy depend on July opening up everything, we do need our bus service to be there, our light rail service to be there otherwise people will drive in cars and we do need a marketing plan and for people despite what happened on these issues on the pandemic on transit that they will come back and make ur transit stronger. I also echo other speakers and ask that hazard pay be included in this budget.Thank you.7:00 PMClerk:alita, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. Thank you for not imposing a fare increase. We are still in a crisis and nobody should be raising fares. We don't want to balance this on the backs of riders. Thank you for that. As we are going over the graphics, I hope we certainly get some american rescue money. Let's try to work on that plan. Having money is a good thing, but it doesn't mean we should spend it tomorrow. Thank you.7:01 PMClerk: lawrence, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello?Yes, we can hear you.Good evening, my name is lawrence bradford of atu local 56 located in arcadia, california. The subject of -- I would hope the plan would be to budget for hazard pay for our victims, for local 225. I'm here out of full support of my brother john courtney, and also in support of the victims, of the families of the victims.Hazard pay should be an automatic. You should not be fightin fighting against this. We are human beings.We have families and loved ones who depend on us and depend on us to make it home safely.7:02 PMClerk: that concludes public comments, chair.Chair hendricks.. thank you. I will close the public comment section and go to comments from my colleagues. Director simitian?7:03 PMThank you, chair. I want to say that it's my understanding that staff is in conversations around caltrain funding, specifically the so-called state of good repair and anagement and I want them to stay at it. I think it's not only a matter of fairness frankly, but the way this system is structured. Our contributions have a potential to leverage other dollars as well and I think we would be well advised to see if we can't find some common ground there. That's it.Thank you.Director liccardo?Thank you. I just had a question way down in the appendices around page 100, referenced to the measure b 2008 program. And no one is going to know this maybe off the top of my head, but i'm concerned about this revenue. The cost for on going operations is what we expected in the $51/52 million range but theproject has large variance from what we expected, and i'm trying to understand if this is an on going annual capital contribution that the bart system is mandating, and if so, for how many years. Do we havean idea if there is a tail end to this? And by that, i'm referring to the $42/44 million that we are seeing annually on the capital improvement project.7:04 PMIs there staff?7:05 PMThank you, chair. mayor liccardo, i'm happy to answer that question. So, first of all, the reason for the operations and maintenance cost, actually my colleagues have been in touch with the counter parts and given that they are providing a lower service at this point, it's likely that there is going to be some savings for the current fiscal year, and any funding that was appropriated by the board before that we did not usewill be used in subsequent fiscal years. That's point no. 1. Point no. 2, based on the capital forecast, it appears that they will not expand what we have budgeted in this fiscal year as well. And we understandthat basically again all the remaining fiscal year, we can bring it forward to subsequent fiscal years as well.Also, we are going to do a true up for expenses within 60 days of their close of the books. So at that time, we'll be able to get a better sense of where things will be for the time period that will end this coming June 30th. So by the time that we are going to come back here by the next budget cycle, we'll get a better sense of where things will be and we'll have two fiscal years under our belt in terms of what the operationsand maintenance are and also vta's contribution to the capital improvement project. And for vta's contribution to the capital improvement project is on going.7:07 PMOkay. thank you, franklin. it's that very end that I needed. What i'm concerned about is on going burn of $100 million in expenses because of the demands made for capital replacement and improvement. I guess what i'm trying to understand is the difference that we'll be contributing to the bart system and for how many years. I'm trying to understand is there an opportunity for us to be either to be negotiating or to be discussing those capital amounts?7:08 PMO ahead.Mayor liccardo, May I speak to that. The operations and maintenance agreement agreed to last year, sets forth the amount we owe in each fiscal year that is the cost model for improvements inside the bart core system and 100% of the improvements in santa clara county.Chair hendricks: before we go on, can the speaker say their name.7:09 PMThis is general counsel.I believe as we improve our system, it's not about what happened in the county but the rest of the bay area, is that right, victor?I'm not sure what's in the budget precisely, but we are not required now to pay for newer projects, the rehabilitation and replacement for things that were already worn out in their system is something we are not required to pay for in the first three years of revenue service.Thank you, if I may, earlier I mentioned about the operating and maintenance costs. There are considerable savings that were realized but also, I should mention other things that in our current request for budget, we did not assume any fares that we ill be able to count as credit towards the operations and maintenance course. So we are trying to make a conservative request here because we are not sure howquick the bart system ridership recovery May turnout to be in the next fiscal year.7:10 PMSo our assumptions are based on revenue models as if ridership will continue at pandemic levels?Actually this is basically the most conservative way. We did not assume any fare revenues at all. We are not going to end up paying bart $51 million for fiscal year 22, for example. The other comment I want to make as well is that comparing in the last five fiscal years for bart's capital budget when they budget let's say $100 for capital expenditures, they end up to be about $60-70 in that. In other words, right nowwithout actual true up exercise being done, we need to comply with what bart intends to budget for the next fiscal year as far as its share with the agreement with the two agencies.7:11 PMOkay, thank you. I appreciate the information. I look forward to talking more off line. I have concerns about what happens after year three or four. Anyway, thank you very much.7:12 PMChair hendricks.. thank you. director bert?First, I want to support supervisor simitian's comments that encourage staff to continue to attempt to resolve the funding for caltrain good repair and our fair share contribution to that. Second, I think that we all need to recognize that we really have been helped immensely by the federal relief dollars and not just through the direct impact periods. They are showing finds it that they are really allowing us to close an operations gap funding gap through 2028. And it really, those funds basically basically buy us time but alsopaper over a structural deficit. And what I don't want to see is that we postpone addressing that deficit because we had the fortune of that bridge funding. And the path that we are otherwise on appears to beunsustainable and jeopardize ur ability to provide the services that we need to provide. And related to that as we ontinue to have a long sustained term we have a report on the next gen technologies and if I recallcorrectly, I don't know whether it was a study session, but we or an action item and maybe staff can refresh me on that. But we had a sizable portion of the board speak up and specifically voice a request that staff continue to pursue this and not accept the projections of the consult of these technologies that aretechnically seven years out and therefore we should not be integrating them in our strategic planning in atimeframe near a term to that. They have the potential to really help us provide better service, more service, and do so in a way that creates us having a sustainable agency that can serve our communities more effectively than we could otherwise. And, so can staff clarify, because we recently heard at the sstp o committee meeting that there was an intention that it would not be coming back through kind of a continuing review of those technologies along the lines that I believe at least half of the board spoke up and indicated they wish to have that done. So, can we get clarification on where we are on that important long-term potential transformation.7:15 PMJim, it looks like you have your hand up to speak?Thank you, glen. I apologize because you and I had conversations following that meeting and we are looking at that approach. We are getting back and I sincerely apologize that things got away from us forreasons that you know and will get back to you and follow up on your very valid concerns. Again, my apologies.7:16 PMI completely understand that recent events have taken over any immediate considerations like this and the follow ups and that's why I had not pursued it otherwise but wanted to raise the issue in the context of thebudget and how it is really a potential component of resolving these structural issues or at least helping to resolve them.Thank you. it's appreciated.Chair hendricks: sam, did you have your hand up?7:17 PMNo. i'm sorry.Sam, are you done?Yes. thank you.There are any other questions of my colleagues n this item? Is there a will of my colleagues?Motion to approve.Second, chavez.We have a motion by vice-chair and second by chavez. If there are no other comments or questions,7:18 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes unanimously.Thank you for my colleagues. as a reminder, 7. 4 were moved. And now we are going to general manager's report. We will take public comment after all the items under the gm's report and the concluding report.Gm, do you have a report?Thank you, chair. . I do want to echo your earlier words f how sorry we are for our colleagues and grateful for the first responders and how grateful we are for our employees. With valley transportation authority transit providing aid these last few days, san mateo and metro will be providing aid to vta as well and we want to extend our gratitude to them. As we navigate through this crisis, I want to make it clear that ourpeople are our priority. This has been the guiding principle by which we stand as we make tough decisions on future service levels and service. On this day, wednesday, May 26, we shutdown rail at noon and webused bused bridges and posted signage. As vta families grieve, we will be less staff available for transit service. As of June 1st, both the light rail service nd bus services were suspended and nstead vta directed the service. We are makin making and providing a little service. Vta has seen a decrease in the number of passengers passed up. We have deployed multiple counseling resources to keep employees healthy and informed. The board chair made some statements. We have a dedicated website, e-mail and phone number for employees to stay up-to-date on employee services and e-mail and donations. Lastly, I want to acknowledge the outpouring of love and support shown to ur community. Everyone in our vta family isimpacted by this. None more so than the immediate family of the victims. We are working with them to make sure they receive the help and support they need during this terrible time, and we ask for your understanding and patience while we focus on healing ourselves and our people. Thank you.7:22 PMThank you, chair. , back to you.Chair hendricks: thank you. I believe 8. 1 report is in our packet. I'm going to ask if there are any public speakers?Yes, we have three public speakers.Okay.Clerk: eugene, you May speak when you are ready? Public speaker: good eening, board. Once again I express my sympathy and for those who perished on 5/26/21, and as well as their families. It was great to hear that you will be coming from san francisco union as well and san francisco metro agency. These agencies will be much needed mutual aid and buses and riders from vta. It's great that advice will be taken especially after these traumatic events. Let's get the help that vta can use right now.7:24 PMPublic speaker: let me sy, about the ridership in the hundreds and 21,000 that gonot used nine years ago as a use to completely obliterate the milpitas station and replacing the highest in milpitas. Which a an is a massive monstrosity. That is not acceptable and I want to see that slide moving forward. Thank you.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: all right. Thank you. I would like to thank the person from the atu who was the first speaker on the last item who had some interesting ideas.One was to consider gun control issues to further consider that issue. I hope this is a time to consider what our good mental health practices and the ideas of equity and reimagined worked right into the ideas of better mental health practices and better human services ideas. Good luck on that effort as we develop atthis time. I took the milpitas to mountain view line and from tazman to downtown, all of those light rail bus bridge issues, they have lots of people still riding on them and those are really, I really hope you work on that issue. It's a lot of people riding that still and we need to consider how to work on that. Thank you.7:25 PMClerk: edna, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board members, edna levine. I want to express my condolences to the vta workers and families and the whole community and the community that depend on vta. I wanted to express sorrow and that's all I have to say.7:26 PMClerk: you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you for having me. It's good to hear that there is mutual aid going down to vta in the wake of this tragedy. It's extremely important thatour focus be on supporting the operators and I will again repeat my request that there be frontline employees, no. One, retroactive pay and counseling for employees. It's not just vta with the health problems but other transit agencies that are having these issues. And they need to be dealt with professionally and firmly, and finally, I also appreciate vta for having virtual meetings and for memberchavez and hendricks. Thank you.7:27 PMThank you.Clerk: don, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: good evening, my name is john rangel and I have been riding vta since 1987. I was also interviewed by channel news and most of you have probably seen it. I was taking I believe one of the last bus bridge going to the civic center and catching he 61 going to work and my concern is that now that light rail is suspended and no bus bridges and I have totake three buses to get to work now because all of this, and this is really because of my disability, it's really frustrating. Thank you.7:28 PMChair hendricks: thank you to our public speakers. I'm going to close the public speaker section. Do any of my colleagues have questions for our general manager? I'm not seeing any hands come up. Thank you for the work that you are doing to keep vta going. It look like we have a hand up by director montano.7:29 PMThank you, glen. I know this has nothing to do with the budget, but I was curious about the arpa funding.Are the guidelines the same for cities?I think there are some differences and one asked about the time frames those have to be used which is one of the key differences that the ot true for the ones that we have.Chair hendricks.. director montano, did you have something else?Yes, I believe we will be getting it next week and we have been discussing ways to use it with committees and most of it is covid related and protecting cuts and keeping our riders safe during this economy andwondering if we will have an opportunity to have input on how our funds will be spent or is that something that the vta staff is going to take on their own?7:30 PMThe board will definitely have a say in that. Right now we have not included those funds into the biennial budget. We will come back at a later point.When will we be receiving those funds?7:31 PMI'm sorry. these funds are distributed to the metropolitan transportation authority. We have not yet decided on mtc and they will be the subject of the coming meetings as we move forward. As ms. Kelly said, the board will find out, a, if we get any money, b, how much we get, c, what are we going to do with it. Does that help is thisI'm glad you said that will be in the future.Absolutely.Thank you.Chair hendricks.. thank you. it looks like director liccardo. Did you have your hand up?Yes, I wanted to thank the leadership for this time and thank you for responding to coworkers and loved ones.7:32 PMChair hendricks.. I agree. rich, did I see you put your hand up?No. thank you. i'm good. thank you.Okay, i'm not seeing any other hands from y colleagues. I'm going to move on to 8. 2. The chairperson's report. I want to wish our lgbtq friends a happy pride month for June 2021. This month we are grateful forhaving your voices, perspectives represented in our communities. Thank you very much. That's all I have in y report. I'm going to move on to 8. 3. There are any items or concerns and referral to administration?Seeing none, are there any announcements? Item 9, the item on closed session was deferred for today. So with our adjournment, i'm going to be saying the nine vta members again and we'll be adjourning in memory of the vta members.7:33 PM. Abdolvahab alaghmandan adrian balleza jose dejesus hernandez iii alex ward fritch lars kepler lanemichael joseph rudometkin paul delacruz megia taptejdeep singh timothy michael romo thank you for being with us and we are adjourned.