[roll call]Carrasco, chavez, davis, gillmor, jimenez, liccardo, simitian, jones, hendricks.Mr. Chair, e have a quorum.Okay, I have to get -- next we are going to orders of the litigation. Do my colleagues ed - have any other changes?I'm not seeing anyone raise their hands. Would someone be able to make a motion that makes the change of removing item 9-1-a. So moved.5:33 PMMoved by montana, second by vice-chair. Do we need to do public comments on this item?We typically do not do public comment on orders of the day.5:34 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes.Thank you.5:35 PMGillmor as well. welcome, everyone. The next item on the agenda is awards and commendations.2. Awards and commendation retirement commendation recognizing ephraim cadaing, senior contractsadministrator, for 30 years of service. Let's give a roulet's give a round of applause. [ applause ] . I would like to ask our members to put their cameras on so the board can take a picture.5:37 PMWe'll count to 3.We are good now.We are doing one more. give me one second.Okay.> this is supervisor simitian. Do I need to annunannounce my presence?We are getting ready to take a group picture.5:38 PMOkay. we are good. thank you so much.Again, congratulations to eh efram on his retirement.Next item.Resolution of appreciation for retired general manager/ceo nuria. I fernandez. Can be do a vote?5:39 PMClerk: [roll call]Mr. Chair, just a point of order, I assume nuria is not with us.Correct.5:40 PMEven though she is not here, i'm going to read this proclamation. Whereas nuria fernandez was nominated by joe biden to be the transportation authority -- and distributed the needed funds which let to the passage of measure b and whereas the completion to silicon valley and champion vta's tunnellingmethodology and public private partnership approach for the second phase of bart's silicon valley extension and to enable to serve as the model for the industry and vta's innovation and whereas nuria made longstrides and -- now therefore be it resolved that the vta board of directors hereby commends and express its sincere appreciation adopted by the vta board of directors, February 4, 2021. I believe nuria is not here, but if i'm not mistaken, she has a letter she would like to have read.5:42 PMYes. nuria left a letter. she asked me to read this aloud to you.To the vta board members and employees, thank you for allowing me to serve this great organization. You trusted me to lead with boldness, decisiveness and creativity. I truly believe these were the secret saucecoming together. When I arrived, the effects of the national recession were beginning to reside and there were clear signs of a more promising future ahead and vta was the space for the bart and the san francisco49ers were preparing to move into their new home and they say meant to enhance safety and to provide service to seniors and low-income riders who would rather ride rail than drive cars. You charged me with this technology to better connect the multi-options creating the way that we would solve the way toconnect people to places and there were priorities that were added to my plate but who was counting. I had the right people sitting at my table to get the job done. Looking back, i'm truly amazed at what we have accomplished but not at all surprised. The women and men were born from this public service. Every new initiative, service change and project was met with a can do attitude and tag line to create, collaborate, lead. So we did. What we did not anticipate was a pandemic in 2020, but yet again, the employees never faltered in their commitment and providing transit to service to those who need it most and finding transportation solutions that are critical. I will treasure this beautiful experience and the lifelong friends and gig me the opportunity to affect the lives of those who benefit directly and indirectly. To the end, the credit belongs to the employees and their willingness to take risks and embrace change. Now, I leave you with one of my favorite passages. 'i fought the good fight, I finished the race, I kept he faith'. I trust you will too. Nuria fernandez.5:45 PMThank you for that. that was really classic nuria comments right there. I believe staff has prepared a quick video that looks back at the last seven years of nuria as our ceo.5:47 PM( video)Thank you to stae # -- staff for putting this together. Nuria encompassed many opportunities. She challenged employees to reach beyond their comfort zones and seek opportunities to improve their skills and broaden their networks and she was one that found diversity and inclusion and promoted over 50 employee events which boosted camaraderie and embraced employee agreement and benefit. We are thankful having her as our general manager for the last seven years and we wish her all the best in her new role. I'm going take a moment here and just going to assume for a second that maybe some of my colleagues might want to make some short comments.5:49 PM> this is no pressure.> member chavez?I just want to say how appreciative and how proud I am that she's going to be serving the nation and the nation will know that she's a very hard worker and very committed to public transportation and verycommitted to the leadership of public transportation and human development and protecting theenvironment and good paying jobs. So I will miss her very much and enjoyed working with her very much.I agree with every that's been said. I couldn't say anything more other than to say i'm ready proud to see nuria take on this national role. What you saw on the video was a testament of what this organization has accomplished. That was not just one person but the entire organization under her leadership and we should all be proud of hat we have done over the last few years.5:50 PMI'm not seeing any other hands. I'm just going to add this last comment. I got a phone call from nuria about this change before others and she went ahead and told me what it was and I was silent and shesaid, glen, are you still there, because it took me a few seconds to process what she was telling me. But my first response to her was we didn't want her to leave but this is a great personal opportunity or her, it's a great professional opportunity for her, but more importantly, it's an excellent thing for the united states of america. We want her, it would be great to see her here to continue doing what she was doing, but being able to take her talent and skill to the national level nd be able to help with national level challenges, I think that's great for america. Those are my comments to her.5:51 PMBoard member peralez?Yes. chair, I will be brief. I thoroughly enjoyed working with nuria and I think she was absolutely tremendously for this organization and region. I happened to have the opportunity to participate in american leadership forum with nuria. So I had a chance to get to know her as a person through that andshe is even more stellar in her regular life as a mother, grandmother and as we all saw here as she was dedicated and we are super excited for her and the opportunity it presents. Definitely bummed, we won't have her here anymore, but i'm going to wish her the best.5:52 PMNow we are going to take and look forward for how we are going to move and get things done. Moving to item no. 3, public comments. For items that are not on the agenda. This portion of the meeting is reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. The amount of time allocated for this section of the agenda May vary at the chairperson's discretion depending on the number of speakers and length of the agenda. The law does not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under specialcircumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing.5:53 PMWe have eugene bradley. public speaker: good evening, everyone, this is ugene bradley. First of all I would like to thank the board for listening to us about the new bus service coming monday.Public speaker: Mr. Lebron, go ahead.Know there are some serious issues with funding. One thing I wanted to mention to you is that vta now has a total of $5 million. Which you May recall last year was the total amount for the funding opportunity.The reason vta got 100% is that nobody else in the united states applied for it and the reason they didn't apply for it is they expect more from the general government. Last point I would like to make to you is that I mentioned earlier about the two structures.5:54 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hi, thank you. Even though there are some current issues of violent crime and there needs not to become repetitive and there needs to be local dialogue that technologyspeakers at the north san jose berryessa bart station and vta needs to establish a new policy and hopefully will establish a review board for advertising that was is placed in the future and all of this can bereimagined for our region. Thank you.5:56 PMHendricks: thank you. that closes our public comment period.Now we'll go to the next item.5. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (swaminathan)There was an opportunity to execute our contract for compliance auditing services on behalf of the cwc.This is a significant action to increase the wash dog committee of conducting an independent audit each fiscal year to ensure tax dollars are being spent with accordance to 2000 measure a. This is a new consultant. Now will begin the audit for the next audit cycle. I will provide updates on the review of themeasure a expenditures at future board meetings. On our cac agenda, staff reviewed the report, program activities which is consent agenda item 6. 8 on your agenda tonight. With regards to our committee member recruitment efforts, i'm happy to report early this afternoon, the governance and committee --audit committee5:58 PMWe still have one more opening. Particularly since four of our members will be terming out at the end of June 2021. Our next regular meeting will be held next week Wednesday February 10, 2021 at 4:00 p. M.Thank you, this concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.Thank you. moving on to 5. 2. (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore)Good evening, chair hendricks, vice-chair jones and members of the board. On thursday, the policy advisory committee conducted a report. We reviewed the status of projects of the santa clara countytransportation fund for clean air manager fund which is on the vta board meeting agenda. We reviewed the status of on going santa clara county vege registration fee on the vta board agenda for February andreceived the quarterly monitoring report for October through December 2020. Our next pac meeting is scheduled for Thursday February 11, 2021, 4:00 p. M. And will be held online.5:59 PMThank you.Great, thank you. congratulations on being voted the chair. Several of us on the board have been on the pac and chair, we feel for what you have. Thank you very much.6:00 PMChairpersons' report. (verbal report) chairpersons' report. (no report) are available on the online packet and the others did not meet.I'm moving now to the consent agenda.Could I interject?I'm sorry. member peralez. The cmpp did meet. I don't know if that was missed.That was my mistake. i'm sorry, board member peralez.6:01 PMOkay, I can give brief synopsis.The floor is yours.We did meet. e conducted voting n our vice-chair person as board member jimenez, and he was actually thrust into the role of chairing the meeting because recently I was diagnosed with bells palsy and I wasstruggling even talking at length at that point. I'm doing much better now, but he valiantly took over the meeting and we had a meeting on the air management agency and not a lot of members are aware of thatrole that the vta plays as the congestion management agency and the requirement that we have at cma.So it was a great presentation in that regard and received an update with regards to the business plan and ad an information item on the santa clara county vehicle registration fee. That's it.6:02 PMThank you so much. glad to see the teamwork. Colleagues, if I don't see your hand raised, please speak up. That is going to take us to the consent agenda.Chair, this is elaine. we have a couple hands up on the public side.Okay, let's go back to that. our public speakers.Roland, please go ahead when ready.6:03 PMPublic speaker: Mr. Chair, first I would like to remind you is of the government code section and it is your board. And with measure a, how we no longer have any capacity left for bonding for bart phase 2 for 12 years and term out and now the vta's general. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, I want to note that chair hendricks is on a new efficiency of the meeting. Sorry to say that. I just want to thank you for this item and note that it's nice with items like this, that they repeat themselves. So I kind of repeat myself but it makes it familiar and I like the vta meetings for that. With that said. Once again offer with nuria fernandezleaving, i'm hoping we can continue the ideas with how to add openness during the time with covid. We are learning to do that and it takes a lot to do that and I hope we are continuing those practices andopenness with the financial issues that we have to worry about. Thank you.6:04 PMThank you. i'm not seeing any other public speakers. We'll go to the consent calendar. The consent agenda is items 6. 1 through 6. 11. Members of the board who would like to address an item, raise your hand now.To my colleagues, is there anyone who wants to pull an item off consent agenda?6:05 PMIt's me, sam, I just want to pull item 6. 1. Or say thank you to vta staff.6:06 PMGo ahead.Thank you, vta staff. recusing from item 6. 2.What section is that?Government code section 308.Thank you.The first thing I was going to ask about pulling items from consent. Would anyone like to be recuse or abstain from any item?Mr. Chair, this is supervisor simitian. Are you asking about all items?6:07 PMYes.I did have a question about 6. 4. I had a question from staff.I'm going to pull the item.Okay. 6.4?Correct.> blair, go ahead and speak when you are ready.6:08 PMPublic speaker: hi, we have come a long way with policy and cybersecurity. And a reminder of how this democratic process can end a war. It's that simple. We are now in a place to find ourselves in a committee with a lens of socio equity as we can imagine and the prison military industrial complex. Keep this in mind with this contract as they May be starting an journey and as many of us are.Roland, go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair, I would like to speak about written public comment is becoming more of an issue. I wrote earlier on item 6. 9 about appointments to both standing committees and I wrote to the board earlier essentially asking mayor liccardo about theappointment to member david which is another violation of government code and this letter is not in the packet and this is becoming an issue. The sooner we address this, the better. Thank you.6:09 PMHendricks: okay, thank you. i'm not seeing anymore public comment. May I have a May I have a motion?6:10 PMChair, I move that we approve all items on the consent calendar.I'm not seeing any comments.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] motion passes.6:11 PMLet's take the items pulled. simitian?I reached out to staff and i'm quipped o ask the question. The question is whether or not the latituderequested in 6. 4, would allow for the purchase or acquisition of surveillance technology without consideration of the privacy implications by our vta board. My understanding from staff is that they areanticipating that for example, if they needed a quick upgrade or repair from our close circuit television cameras, that's something they would like to move quickly, but hat I could not get a lear understanding onand that is my challenge is whether or not other kinds of surveillance technology could be acquired given this authorization with privacy implications that would not come before the board for consideration and as you know there is a host of other privacy technology out there and i'm not sure to what extent there is areview process thatten insures that privacy and security are weighed simultaneously. I want to ask staff if this would allow for that surveillance kind of technology without board review?6:12 PMI'm sure staff is ready to give you a response.Mr. Chair, i'm going to ask our chief information officer to respond to that question.Yes, hello. anything that we would procure nder item 6. 4, the general technology store would comply with the cctv policy. At this time, we don't have other surveillance or systems that you asked about in place or in progress. So this as you mentioned was just for systems that May breakdown or need emergency fixes and anything like that would e the cctv systems we already have and those would be covered by the cctv policy approved by the board. I think other specific security sensitive items might better be handled in closed session. But I would like that to the general council's discretion.6:13 PMYes, my question and I still didn't grasp whether the answer is yes or no. Under this authorization, is staff authorized to acquire other types of surveillance technology different from cctv without coming to the board?6:14 PMThe answer to your specific question would be no,. We would only buy things that already have been approved by the board and would not use this to buy anything that exceeded our existing authorization under the existing cctv policy.Thank you. that's helpful. I appreciate the commitment on the record. I will nonetheless abstain, but I appreciate the commitment on the record and hope that it helps to raise the issue p for consideration morefully by the board and staff at some other time. Thank you.Thank you.So member simitian, it looks like you have gotten a response that you are satisfied with?6:15 PMI have but I will abstain when the item is called.We are going to public comment now.Mr. Bateman, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you for the words and he has a history with technology. He asked for that here. Thank you. I hope the security officer tried to offer some semblance of what ago practices nuria fernandez was trying to develop for the technology within the vta.And the fact that there is a certain set of public policies that she helped develop. It's important. I think she did some nice work in that area and to respect that efforts and not short circuit it, the fact that she left is important. We owe nuria the responsibility to better part of ourselves since she depart and important for you carry that weight and thank you for that. To conclude quickly.6:17 PMThank you. that's the end of your time.Next speaker, please.Lance.Public speaker: hello, I have one question. Why are we still using cctv cameras when there is better technology available?Did you have anything else you wanted to share during your time for public comment?6:18 PMThat's all I have.Great, thank you.> that was the last of our public speakers. I will now close public comment. May I have a motion to approve the consent agenda? We have a motion and second. I do not see anymore of my colleagues wishing to so to speak. May we have a voice vote, please.Clerk: [roll call]6:19 PMMotion passed. thank you.Thank you. we are now on the regular agenda. Item 7. 1. 7. 1. Information item - receive an overview of the governance and audit committee and auditor general duties. (verbal report)Good evening, board members. given he new members, we thought this presentation would be helpful. We are going over the background and history and responsibilities and audit general function. The background and history is in 2007, former gm michael burn initiated the assessment to have an independent assessment to see where vta needed improvement and transit experts. And the vta established an independent auditor to assist the board. These are good governance practices to assist the responsibilities and audit committee and comprised of board members and independent auditor general function to assist the board. In 2008 board was established, audit committee and auditor general function. In 2014, board added responsibilities to audit committee and renamed it governance audit committee. 2015, board selected outsourced model for ag function. The chairperson of the standing committee committee. They meet at 4:00 p. M. And we finished less than an hour ago. The governors and auditor duties and responsibilities wears two hats. The irst one is on the governance side and the primary mission is to focus on the management and to help guide the organization to help accomplish the vta's strategic goals andsome of the responsibilities to recommend to the board policy decision bonds and goal setting and prioritization, second is strategic framework and development, examples are the countywide transportation plan, vtp, strategic and business plans. Business plan is currently underway. The budget development process which is on the way now and the board and committee processes. That is underway for governance enhancement for the process. Some of the key specific governance responsibilities.Responsible for evaluating and achieving its mission and goals and responsible for the orientation training and mentoring process for board members and also responsible for the process of board membersevaluation and annual performance evaluations of the gm/ceo and general counsel. And review and recommend board approval of modifications to vta administrative code and approve modifications to advisory committee bylaws and approve appointments to specific advisory committees and advisory now on the audit side. The primary role is to evaluate the effectiveness of achieves the mission oversee the activities of the auditor general and internal and audit function, recommended to the board policy decisions required to fulfill the bard's oer the responsibilities for integrity of vta financial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, assuring an effective system of internal management and financial controls and risk assessment and management. And review and recommend for board approval annual and bi biennial auditor general work plan. Results of individual audits assessments, comprehensive annual financial report and other audited financial reports. Review vta enterprise risk management reports and findings. Purpose to assist the board in accomplishing vta's objectives by bringing an independent,systematic and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of its risk management, controls, and gons processes. Key factors, ag function reports to board and is over seen and managed by g & a ag function has unrestricted access to all vta functions, records and information as well as full access communication with board members, vta management and staff. Independent consultant study previously conducted to evaluate ag service delivery models board selected outsourced vendor. The board selected the outsourced model. That's what you currently have and if you want to exercise the board's prerogative and the model to the organization. Okay, next slide. Some of the key duties is the development, recommend the annual biennial auditor general work assign, manage, the resources required to completethe projects, tasks in the board approved ag work plans. And the key item is they identify operational and project enhancement opportunities over consideration by the board in ga. Lastly, is scott johnson will talk about the monitoring of vta ethics hotline and investigate submissions. With that, I will end my report andask for any questions.6:27 PMThank you. before go to public comment on this, I want to get and make the comment that first of all, I appreciate every member and the part of the board here and the value their adding and what they are doing. But I want to also add the value of the committee and they are offering to the chair and standing committee and serving on the g & a committee. I want to thank everyone for participating in that. Can we go to our public speakers, please.6:28 PMMr. Lebron. public speaker: r. Shay, I would like to see a change whereby the elections of the last meeting in other words the current chair was elected to the previous board. And we might have a different chair. I did support merging the cpt. It's logical. As long as we don't lose any material and also supported to the g & a. The only comment I have is section 0. 1. Bwhich has to do with registration. That's a violation of government code section 95. #. Thank you.6:29 PMThank you.Next speaker, please.Mr. Bateman. public speaker: hi, thanks for your patience with myself. My first comment about nuriafernandez is she helped make the process more understandable about transit vehicles. I hope it helped set a tone to make it very clear and make these clean policy and practices more clear and accountable May seem small but I think it's going a long way for the way you make decisions in the future. Also for auditing ideas of former general manager. As we are all going more comfortable with the community at a local level, can we cancel the large plans for transit hub at this time.6:30 PMHendricks.. thank you. that was our last public speaker. I'm going to close public comment. I think the board is thankful and appreciative of all public comments, not just public comments that come in related tog & a but public comments that we get on all items that we deal with on the board. With that, do my colleagues have any questions or comments about the item we are hearing right here?6:31 PMI'm not seeing anyone raise any hands. This is an information item not requiring a motion. Moving on to item 7. 2 auditor general's recommended work plans and projects for the remainder of fiscal year 2021 and for fiscal years 2022 and 2023. A report.Thank you, Mr. Chair. we appreciate the overview and background you provided. This is a unique opportunity and timing. With some of the new board members, I have not had and opportunity to speak to you as your new ag. I was appointed your ag in June of 2020. By way of background, my name is scott johnson, and prior to working at ngo, I have been a partner and leading the advisory group for the past six years and actually worked for a number of santa clara county public agencies in my former professional career. So some of your faces are very familiar to me and I look forward to working with the board more closely as I along with my team continue our6:32 PMCommissioner Liz workman: ing with vta. With that, chair, members of the board, staff and members of the public, i'm plead # pleased to present to you the work eview for the projects and fiscal year 2021 and fiscal years 2022 and 2023. This is a risk assessment conducted by the ag team and feedback we received from the governors and audit committee. On slide no. 2, I want to add a little bit by way of backgroundthat steven provided. The audit or general supporting the vta's strategic plans and goals by assisting the board in fulfilling its if you hadary responsibilities. The ag's work plan specified projects that the board authorizes the ag's office to undertake each biennial period along with the corresponding levels. In April of 2019, the board approved a work plan, the biennial work plan for fiscal 20 and 21 and that work plan was developed and recommended by the prior ag firm rsm. However, in February of 2020, rsm requested and granted release from its contract from vta. Therefore, through our competitive process, ngo was awarded a contract to serve as vta's auditor general and specifically I am serving that role along with my team andstaff from ngo. So we are currently in this transitionary phase since the former ag developed the fiscal 20 and 21 work plans approved by the board and engine -- given that transition and approved the plans and given the other work plan ag cycle and given the time and timing of this plan due to this transition. I also want to mention attachment a attached to the staff report to the board, the report includes the projectlisted and the scope and the projects that were previously approved by the board, the year they originally planned and our recommendation on amending your timing and referral for your future consideration. On the next slide 3, the contract was approved and was completed a comprehensive assessment using two frame works pursuant to our contractual requirements. These frame works are widely accepted as currentbest practices in the audit profession and these professional standards requirements noted were notrequired in the previous ag, there was a bit more level of effort and a bit more work and much more professional and technical overview in conducting this risk an assessment. By using this framework and ourinternal and external framework and opportunities. So on the next slide 4, this slide provides a graphic review of the 3 phase approach I mentioned in conducting the risk assessment. I'm not going through all the details of this slide, but I will say very step of the way after each phase, we went back to the governance and audit committee to the results and discussed that next phase. Phase 1, we initially gotfamiliar with vta. We conducted document release that you can see some of the documents here that I listed. We also did a preliminary assessment. And then phase 2, that was really the body of work conducted for this assessment. They include the interviews, work plans and project reports and developedthe key maps and the projects to include in the plan and presented the results to the committee. Finally in phase # 3, it included more detailed projects that we recommended. Further feedback from the chair andvice-chair pursuant to direction from the ga committee in December and we developed estimates for the level3 project, we developed a proposed work plan and we developed a preliminary project schedule yyear. On the next slide 5, in regards to the work we've completed to to kind of give you some context our team liked. First of all, we would like to mention how the team was very responsive and collaborative. We received a genuine sense of open and knowledgeable and positive feedback from all levels from the organization. It's really important for me and formally working for a government agency that as a treasurer, that you have an independent audit and some of my co-workers in the past are reluctant to work with auditor's, I will say so far the vta board and those I have been in contact have been extremelycooperative and responsive. That's a really good sign. I also want to publicly acknowledge steven and peter for their involvement in this process. We have to remain objective, but it also is a partnership. This slide provides some context to the level of effort and participation for the key elements of a risk assessment.You can see here the document review process, policies and procedures, financial reports, budgets, were reviewed former work plans as I mentioned earlier, we conducted surveys. 50 participants responded. Wehave a 73% response rate and this was during the early stages of covid. So we looked at that as a really good response rate. And then we interviewed over 50 participants either individually or in groups through our interview process in assessing the risks for vta. So on the next slide is the risk, I just want to talk about the risk register and the heat map. As we were going through this risk assessment, we identifiedover 200 risks, additional concerns and ideas and opportunities. We populated this internal risk register with each one of those identified risks and we narrowed them down into a group and some were notappropriate for an ag work plan, but others when we looked at them, for example the governance model or the board, you are dealing with that now, you had a comprehensive report and you are working through some of those initiatives so we did not include that as a project. We identified 15 candidates as potential ag projects. Some were consistent with what the board had already approved for the work plans for fiscal 20 and 21. Then we developed this risk based heat map. We ranked the 15 projects on the heat map and we rated that. The ratings were from 1-5. As we move to the next slide, you will see the heat map in your pcket. These are the 15 projects that can be identified through the risk assessment. By the way, his heat map is also included in the attachment of our report. Through this risk heat map, based on ourprofessional judgment assessment of risk and you look at risk impact and the likelihood of it happening without any mitigating factors. And so the ranking as I mentioned 1-5. 1 being the lowest and 5 being the highest impact. You will note a couple of bubbles where there is more than one project listed because theoverall risk rating was the same for those projects. So we put them in that bubble. You will note here that as you look at the risk heat map, to the far top right, those projects that we listed as the highest risk and the highest risk item that we identified in almost everyone we talked to in the surveys are concerned aboutthe long-term fiscal sustainability of vta and a lot of it due to ovid but some of it hopefully after covid is over and done with. So that was the highest ranking. And then you will see here the other ranks and how they fit into the heat map. As I mentioned, this is our work plan for the next two years. We developed this based on the results of the risk assessment as well as what we received from ga and for the record, at the ga December meeting, we had more input from the vice-chair. Today's ask is to request approval to amend the fiscal 21 workgroup. As I mentioned the board already approved the fiscal plan of fiscal 21 and also to approve fiscal 22 and 23. Typically it's a biennial work plan that is moved forward through the office approved by the board, however, given this transition we are basically picking up this year fiscal 21 and adding on fiscal 22 and 23 and starting 24, we would recommend going back to the bean # # biennial cycle. The next slide. This is the 12 projects that we are recommended on iscal 21 and 22 and 23. These are projects already approved by the board. Some of them were approved in fiscal 19, that had already been started by the former ag but never completed and the other one was for fiscal 20 and 21 that had not been started. We are recommending to continue some of those. However, there are others that we are are recommending deferring to be approved. This is a snapshot for three years. You will also notice that someof them have multiple parts and that is because of timing and when we can start on them. So we are trying to be very strategic and mindful and fiscally prudent in regards to the work plan of the rolling out of those projects. Influential -- on the next slide this is a list of projects identified in the risk assessment and others from the work plans from the former ag and we are recommending deferring them and reconsidering them in the next ag work plan cycle. You will note here that none of those projects by the way, the risk level is noted here on the previous slide. The risk level for these projects, none of these projects were identified to be in the high risk model. They were in the medium high for the medium risk.There were none actually through their risk assessment in their low risk category that we identifiedremaining. The next slide 11 the next steps as was previously mentioned, we did go over the work plan with the ga committee. The committee did provide feedback and they did ake action to modify the work plan to take one project out and that is the transit partnership project because it's recommended that the think attack take a look at the study with the partnerships because they are the subject matter experts with regard to transit. Finally, we are looking forward to your feedback and i'm vibe available to answer any questions you May have. Thank you.6:48 PMThank you, scott. before I go to public comments, could we get staff to put slide 9 up? I just want to clarifywhat the change was that the ga committee did prior to this meeting. The item that scott mentioned that we want to change is the third item that's on this slide, the bay area transit partnership and as he said, what we want to do is find a way to be able to accelerate to get he work product done faster. But I believe what we are talking about what we are going to ask the board to do on this item is to approve this work plan and you are essentially approving the work plan without that one item and approving the overalldollar numbers associated with this and the selection of the work items. Did I state that correctly, steven?6:49 PMBasic ally yes you did. that is to look at the project and the items presented.Great. let's go to public comment for this. Staff, if we can hear from our public.Mr. Bteman, go ahead. public speaker: speaking to this plan and I think open policies and ideas and how local government agencies can make more connections at this time can be incredibly important andinnovative at this time and seems vta will count on san jose for racial and social equity and trails for the city. I think vta has to take part more in the ideas reimagined for equity and sustainability and for bikeprojects in low-income neighborhoods of south bay cities that they have been considering long beforecovid-19. Please consider keeping financial auditing open and available during covid-19 and please notice the european countries are affecting cyber communities and finding peace, not war. Thank you. Other a # --6:50 PMPublic speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair. Go has been with vta since 2008. There were others for measure a.So now we go to the slide that is basically glowing red on the top right saying please go to committee and now we no longer have capacity left. My question to nga is very simple. Why did you fall asleep at the switch and what's going to change moving forward?6:51 PMThank you, I think that was our last speaker.Are there any questions?This is supervisor simitian. I have a question and a follow-up.6:52 PMGo ahead.Hi, this is board supervisor simitian. If I understood the report correctly, looking at the measure b, it's dentified as medium risk, but the suggestion is that we not ask the auditor to take a look at it until 2024,do I have that understanding correct?Yes, member simitian, the reason, you are correct. The reason that we are making that recommendation is because vta has already hired a separate auditor to look, to do compliance work with regard to measure b.We thought it would be prudent to let the citizens oversight committee and the audit do their work and we would come in after and do the process and procedures and control and so on.6:53 PMThank you. that's hlpful. and Mr. Chair, colleagues, through the chair, that other comment about the oversight committee, is precisely the issue I want to ask about. If i'm reading the materials correctly, I believe there are two vacancies on that oversight committee at the present time and my understanding is that it's the customary practice for that committee to meet quarterly, last meeting in October of last year, and I couldn't find on the website any indication of a meeting scheduled here which May not be yet etablished. For the auditor, we are not going to ask them to take a look at it in 2024 with the oversightincluding but not limited to the oversight committee. I'm just thankful that committee has a full compliment of members and hopefully the staff can verify that and the two items.6:54 PMI can provide clarification on that. Yes the measure b 2016 oversight committee is actively involved in having the independent compliance audit of 2016 measure b conducted. The audit since it's a catch up of fiscal year 19 and 20 has taking a little bit longer and however this committee has appointed mark adams and we have a meeting March 3rd and 4 and there will be a draft audit and the final meeting will acceptthat audit.6:55 PMFinal meeting being what?I will give you the specific date. It's if I remember correctly the 24.It -- is it in march?The first meeting is in march, on the 23 at 10:00 a. M. And the second one on the 24.This is elaine. we have some already scheduled on the calendar for the oversight committee. We have two meetings in March and the other one for april, July and October and at the first meeting in march, they will be adopting their meeting schedules at that time and we'll be posting all of their scheduled meetings on the website.6:56 PMGreat. thank you, through the chair, that's helpful. And on those vacancies, are there vacancies?Yes, he is correct. there are a few vacancies, the first one is the categorical federal administration and the other one is a law or mediator arbitrator.And the other one will be forwarded to the board chair.6:57 PMAs always, if there are any board members interested in those position, please let them know.Thank you. could we ask for a report back either on or off the agenda on the schedule and progress made on filling those vacancies so we know it happening on a timely basis.Yes, we can ask taff to get that written report out and prior to the next board meeting, they can come out to the board members.Thank you for that. if you are wondering why i'm delving to this obscure area, if we are going to rely on folks to do this scope and not rely on auditor to engage on the 24 on these issues, I think it's important to have a full compliment of folks on-the-job and calendar that is clear for their work. So thank yu, again, Mr. Chair and thank you to the auditor.6:58 PMThank you and before we go to the other gm, did you have something to share?Yes, Mr. Chair, in regard to the vacancy for the retired federal state Judge Or mediator arbitrary judge. we did send a letter and asked from the california bar association asking someone to fill out an application for the committee. We are definitely trying to get interest there from our bar association. Thank you.Thank you. next, member bert?6:59 PMYes, the first one is I couldn't find it. The first one is risk from bart operations and is that within the bay rapid transit partnerships or any other items?Thank you, member bert. that would be an area that we would look at when we are looking at the long-term sustainability because part of that is looking at the revenue stream and with regards to revenues.I was wondering if it might be there and is that one of the designated and focused areas of that particular audit?Yes, it is.And the second question is on the whole, the scope and the timing of the audits. To what degree and this question is either of committee or the auditor. To what degree are those things constrained by the budget allocated for audits versus the prioritization that is implied in the heat map?7:00 PMThis is scott johnson, your auditor general. I can respond to that. We plan to put a line in the budget and there is a cap in the average for the contract with vta engine # -- given that we are outsourced. I wanted to look at slide 9 listed on top, all those are the ones that are high or medium high risk. So we really took that into consideration with what the risk level was and we are also looking to do this project in parts and get started on this year and do part 2 next year. We are kind of piecing part of the scope out so that we can do these as soon as possible, but also be mindful of the bunch of constraints.7:01 PMI appreciate that we do have significant budget constraints and this is maybe the next part of the question directed more at the committee. To what extent have we had considerations of whether we May need to increase the budget of committee to accelerate some of these audits if we really think that we do have a risk that we want to have a better understanding of?So, this is glen, I will just go ahead and say, I think if there with items that we felt needed to be done now and that if budget was the real constraining factor, you would probably see us come back and ask for additional budget. And this is where I think going back to the one item I did pull out which was this artnership piece is we are essentially saying, we need to find a different way to get that done faster and that May in fact cause a budget restraint. We are trying to work within the budget here but I don't think any of us felt that was a con straining factor that would prevent something from getting done. Do my colleagues want to add anything to that from ga?7:03 PMI will just say, chair, that I agree with your assessment that ta was never to constrain any potential projects. If it was warranted. It was just we were working with the budget we have available for thosetradeoffs.Back to you.Thank you. I guess board member jones captured my concern that we do have tradeoffs and I just want to make sure that in the committees sense of obligation that stay within the budget constraints that we are not trading off things that we might really be dollars well spent at this time. But I will defer to thecommittee on that, but I just really wanted to make sure we look at that including the item I mentioned on the fiscal sustainability and that risk to do operations from ridership shortfalls that May occur from the bart system.7:04 PMOkay. thank you.Member montano, you had your hand up.I changed my mind but now that you called on me, I will ask the question. Is the cac oversight committeefor measure b, is it reflective of the county, for example, is there a fair and equal representation from all sectors of the county; the north, south, and so forth and also s there one for measure a as well?7:05 PMSteven?The answer to both questions is yes. There is a long standing oversight committee for measure a that has been in service since revenues started being collected in 2006, and there is a separate 2016 measure b oversight committee. With both of those, every effort is made to have a geographical as well as diversity.It dependents on who comes to apply. The truth of the matter is we sometimes have to do outreach to get pplicants and we can always, we welcome the help of all of our board members.Is there someone from north county, my sector?7:06 PMOf the committee?Yes.I know one erson lives in palo alto, another in sunnyvale. That's just anecdotal in my dealings with them.But yes, we try to be very cognizant of having north county, south county representation.Thank you.Member liccardo?Thank you, Mr. Chair. scott, great to have you working at vta. Good to see you again. Glad you are at vta.Appreciate the report. Hey, as I think about the last half decade here at vta, you know, the two episode where I felt like our organization, you know, some weaknesses were really exposed with regard to fraud, one involving outreach and one involving the subcontractor using old switches on bart phase 1. In terms ofreally costly damaging episodes where there were breaches in oversight of some kind. As I look at the risk assessments, procurement contracting process, monitoring and capital budget project controls are both ranked medium risk and two categories above that in risk. At the risk of sounding as the general fighting the last war, i'm a little concerned that we have some weaknesses that have been exposed in our organization and oversight and we don't have levels of risk identified. I wonder why you believe those tobe in the oranges as opposed to the red?7:08 PMThe reason I had procurement reporting to me, I understand what you are saying. We have been working with your vta manager and is relatively new and working on updating and making hanges and updatingpolicies and so on. So we thought it would be appropriate to give him that time, a new fresh eye in the whole procurement process. The other thing I want to point out is one thing and I didn't go over in detail, starting next year, we recommended to ga to give the auditor general some flexibility to what we call spot audits. Those spot audits would be more limited scope type of audits in specific areas. So the areas that you refer to could potentially be spot audits candidates and I meet with them periodically and if those issues are raised, those are candies to do a spot audits on as well as any other issues i'm aware of. In addition to that, the ga has a supplemental fund and as the chair mentioned where they could then allocate specifically to the auditor general to perform special projects in case any of these issues raise up and there is a concern in a particular operational area in vta and then we can have some flexibility. Wehave flexibility with funding with vta and with flexibility with spot audits.7:10 PMThank you, appreciate that. with respect to the procurement process where you feel like there have been some fixes in place and some new leadership in that role that May reduce the risk, is that correct?Yes.Okay. with regard to capital construction oversight, given that that other -- yeah, go ahead.I'm sorry. yes, you will notice here on this list, the largest project that i'm aware of that vta is undertaking is the bart phase 2, right?Right.As you see here, we are recommending, we are recommending a two part process initially to look at thecontract administration and the construction cost assessment. We'll be doing specific tting in regards to expenditures related to bart phase 2 as well as how contracts are being administered and monitored. Inaddition to that, you will see we added a part three on the out years. So i'm anticipating that as long as bart phase 2 exist, we will come as your auditor general and look at on an iterative basis on that process.Now, to the construction that you were talking about in the former ag's work plan, I think that is important, but I think that looking at specific focused areas to do the spot audits, contact administration and one thing noted earlier, we are also monitoring the ethics hotline and through the ethics hotline,members f the public and anyone at vta can submit a report to the auditor general through the hotline if they have any concerns. We'll review that. Our procedure now is set up will vet that through the agencycounsel's office because there might be a confidentiality issue. I can't talk about, we have twoinvestigations that conducting now as a result of reports we received through the ethics hotline. That's another avenue to look at potential fraud. Quite frankly, I have presented as a professional over a dozenpresentations on mitigating fraud in local government. And the most frequent way of catching fraud is through chips that you get. It's very hard to detect fraud. As long as you have your proper controls inplace, but the hotline is just another avenue that the public has as well as anyone at vta if they have any concerns, if they see something they need to say something through the hotline or go through the chain of command at vta.7:13 PMOkay, fair enough. scott, and I appreciate your point. I would just emphasize, bart is only an example of measure b budget. I think it would be important at some point for us to be able to look at our supervision controls that are in place on the other capital projects. But the point is well-taken. Thank you.7:14 PMThank you.Member chavez?Thanks. I just would ask our partners to look at other partner organizations and the reason is we are going through a process for cares dollars and the long-term relationship we've had with mtc and the resourcesthat the south bay receives I think is really important for us to better understand. I think back to scott's point. I think there is some and perhaps this is a little bit of what supervisor simitian was raising is that there May be instances where we need to pull out projects and potentially find partners who can also be ofassistance. I think the work plan that scott and his team have is very deep and robust and will take some time and they are relatively new in this position. So, in any case, i'm just going to reinforce to staff to enforce to look to others partners to help with that. Thank you.7:15 PMHendricks: I think I see a member of the public raising their hand to speak but we have already closed public comment. Is there another comment from my colleagues? not seeing any. Is there a motion?7:16 PMA motion and second. if there are no other comments or questions, can we have a vote.Mr. Chair, this is elaine. I want to confirm the motion is to approve the work plan and taking out the bay area rapid transit plan?7:17 PMThat's correct.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes.We are now moving on to 8. 1. General manager/ceo report. (verbal report) receive an update on vta'simplementation of covid-19 related safety measures. (verbal report)I want to start to bring you up-to-date with covid-19. On January 25th, government lifted the statewide order and santa clara county stayed with the purple tier including wearing masks on vehicles and enforcingsocial distancing measures. February 1st, the centers for disease control ordered mask wearing on all public transportation systems. It's now a violation of federal law. Precovid-19 testing ontinues incollaboration with county health department that is rotating among vta divisions. January 27th, about 120employees took advantage of our north distribution and we had a good turnout yesterday t the chaboya division. Vaccines are underway in anta clara county for individuals over age 65. The 6 5 age threshold was in place last week, prior to that it was 75 year-olds. Vta has requested transit workers be prioritize toreceive the vaccine and the vaccine is being rolled out by the state and the county and vta has no authority over who receives it. We are still working with the agencies for vaccine roll out. Initially the transit workers were on the roll out plan for tier 1 and 2 and in anticipation of that phase 1b implementation, and three tiers for the vaccination, irst one is frontline employees who are involved with the general public and those ages over 75 and employees ages over 65 and underlying medical conditionswhich increase life threatening complications and the last one administrative personnel. We understand hat that might change and that the state is already looking at switching from this tier approachimplementation to the age based approach and we'll keep you updated as we understand how that is going to be rolled out.7:20 PMNext speaker, please. safety easures for employees would be added and what maybe contributing to the rise in covid cases with our frontline workers. Earlier I mentioned the mandatory federal mask order andthat is required in order to operate safely. And we are including the pass ups and still maintaining thechanges and those changes go into effect monday, February 8th. Also Monday February 8th, vta will use no contact boarding to minimize the transmission of covid and monitor compliance with the division in the field. As a reminder, in July of last year, vta implemented it's 10 point plan which outlines action to strengthen trust in riding transit including frequent cleaning and sanitation of vehicles and workers'.Personal protection equipment, social distancing and ventilation. This is the road map. I will turn it to our chief officer to identify the safety protocols that we have taken.7:23 PMDavid hill, chief operation officer.For full personal protection equipment, you see favics, face shields, hand sanitizer and gloves, seat covers and full coveralls. And we have hand sanitizer on board and s well as the holder for the mask was not something we can buy anywhere. So creative employees who are very talented, they made it from scratch.They took a napkin holder and con figured it to hold the mask and hand sanitizer and we enforced the mask policy, no mask, no ride. At our division we were really concerned about safety and we put on our canopy outside signs for social distancing so our employees would not congregate together and maintain social distancing. You May ask when they are outside, how can we call them to come in to work? A number of ways, we have the cellphone and paging system like the ones in the restaurants. That allows the employees to take a walk or go into their cars until they were needed. On the inside of the division we also installed plexiglass. You will see plexiglass partitions and on the right side we installed plexiglass in thebreak rooms. We had social distancing also for our employees. We have been adhering to social distancing and also keeping our customers safe as well. The first picture is the blocked off seating in our rail cars as well as our public buses and also we provide in service sanitation where possible at terminals or the lines and also our transit drivers. We put a plastic bubble to help with social distancing on our vehicles.7:27 PMEveryone wants clean air and we installed filter on our buses and we have a new merv filter that stops particles at any given time. On our buses, will notice on the left hand side there is a plastic shield. That is because we didn't have permanent shields and we saw a way to separate our operators from our customers. Some of our mechanics, they came one this idea that you pull down and it goes up like a shade. So this gave some flexibility for our operators until we get the permanent barriers. Now this is on a 40 foot. On our 60 foot which is on the right hand side an it shows you the permanent barriers that we have on the buses. Once we get the property types in, we'll order the parts and we'll rapid install all thepermanent barriers so our fleet will have permanent barriers 100%. That ends my presentation. Are there any qestions?7:29 PMHendricks.. thank you, david.I'm going to invite next our program deliver officers to present or provide you with a status update on the bart project.Thank you. good evening Mr. Chair, members. I have a brief update for you. I just wanted to tell you thatas you know on January 11th, fta announced another $100 million for the project. We are at 225. Still on the lower end of the 25% of the at the moment purchase. That is what we are working with them. I'm happy to tell you and will give you a better update with more details next month that we did make the first offers to six properties. I would say big budget corporations and that is a milestone as you understand inour business to really make offers like this and we are going to take you through. The vta and bart working groups, are we have 75% of the criteria which is part of the bidding documentation. Now we are down to 20% and we are going to take a couple more months to finish. Why? We are on the new segment inside the tunnel and they are disconnecting from the station which bart does not have any existing idea on that but we are working together to come up with this design criteria. When we finish this, we are going tohave everything we need for this part of our implementation. Just a couple parts for you on the agreement which you know is critical. Today we received from sacramento the final agreement for our internal review from cal trans. This is considered a critical agreement. Some of you recall back in october, we executed a master agreement and then we go to individual agreements. These pertain to the locations where the bart project goes to route 101 and 880. And the agreement, we are going to start reviewing it tomorrow andi'm very optimistic we are going to agree with cal trans. City charter, we have the agreement and now producing the corporate agreements. Just two days ago, working the last few months with santa clara and city staff, we prepared the new cooperative agreement and sent it to the city staff. In a few weeks I will go to the city staff and present the final agreements. And with the city of san jose, as you know we have amaster agreement with the city. We executed that back in october, mid-october, I don't remember the date, October 15th or 16. Now we are going through the individual areements. We have established together the city and vta schedule which is May 12 we are going to have the agreements to the city. That'sit. I only wanted to take 10 minutes to tell you how we are doing with bart.7:33 PMThank you.Thank you.Vta is celebrating black history month and there is on our website where we'll feature black people, the first vice-president of the united states and amanda gorman. -- that concludes my presentation.Thank you. we'll be taking public comments for 8-1. 8-1a and 1b. Member bert?7:34 PMThank you.Just one question on the filtration on the buses. It's great that it's being upgraded with filtration, but myunderstanding is that we have to go to merv 13 for any filtration of aerosols that are maybe covidcontaining and we couldn't go with whatever filter we would like to. I was wonder whether we can go to a denser filter that would require additional equipment upgrade if that's feasible. That's a pretty significant factor in terms of covid air quality and safety.7:35 PMYes, when you look at the merv 13, our h evacuate system is trying to suck the air in and it will burn up the bearings and you won't have any irflow at all. We are talking with one of our partners to see if there isa way to update to erv 13, but it will take some significant changes and we still have to have air in order to flow through the motors themselves. So if we try to suck it through, the merv 3 right now it will just burn up the bearings and you wouldn't have any airflow at all.7:36 PMRight, I understand that dynamic between the filter density and the strength of the motors, and I assume that these motors can't withstand the greater density of merv 13. There have been in stationerystructures, there is been a recognition that they are actually high flow merv 13s that they thought they couldn't upgrade and that May not be the cases on the buses.Right. we are still looking at it again and we are looking if we can find a way to get to 13, we most certainly will do it. Next, member peralez.7:37 PMThank you for the report and more importantly for stepping into this role and wearing two hats for us right now. I think you've proven yourself well over the years so at least very confident in this interim role that you have multiple hats you are having to play and I appreciate that you didn't skip a beat. I just want to say thank you.Awesome. next is member montano.Thank you, chair hendricks. I just want to say thank you to Mr. Davidson, I think his name was. I'm really impressed with the ingenuity with the frontline work hae has done and i'm very impressed with the work.And the next question is that done on light rail and bart?7:38 PMOn our light rail, yes. on bart, I can't answer that. But I will assume that we all are working in collaboration and doing all we possibly can. Thank you for complimenting our employees. We have the best employees that have really come to work through all of this.7:39 PMThank you. i'm not seeing any comments from our colleagues. Elaine, would you like to cover 8-1b.That information is in the online packet.We will now take up public comment on items 8-1 b.Before we receive public comment, we have received more comments on the board that is in the packet.Next speaker, please.7:40 PMFirst of all, thank you for the report. I was actually going to echo director peralez' comment until I realized that the update on bart is not on the agenda. Because I would have written to this. With regard to what they are doing is very simple. It's a progressive design build. It should be noted that elements should require further environmental analysis and what should be required will be required for the approval of thecontract and design elements. You know what, he's going to the fta with the message. The other one that I have is the comments made last week about what's bart phase 1 and what's not.Thank you,Next speaker, please.7:41 PMMr. Bradley, go ahead when you are ready.> public speaker: good evening, board members. I want to thank you for providing the public7:42 PMI'm concerning about the buses and the lack of enforcement and that people have vandalized buses.Blair, go ahead when you are ready.Yes, thanks. about the mask and things, it was nice. And starting to work on with nuria fernandez and the ideas with that and all of that information we had in her last days here and welcome william tran and how we can navigate ersatz and remember nuria's past and just build our good future.7:43 PMNext speaker, please. john, go ahead when you are ready.Good evening, interim general manager. I want to give a big shout out to the executive staff and a couple individuals particularly. They have really took the human factor and put everything else aside. Theemployees are really thankful. And the event beginning of the pandemic from March to august, we had only 14 positive cases. We have a otal of 170 positives so far. Hopefully that will go down and at the beginning of the year, we had 69 cases of positive cases to covid with one death. We are looking at the rear door boarding, if we can save one life, we are successful. And this is a great asset for this company.7:44 PMThank you, john and thank you to all the employees who are doing the hard work everyday.Next speaker, please.Good evening, chairman hendricks and members of the board. I would like to take a moment to stand along the workers. It's great to hear that vta will be implementing a rear door policy and these are forpeople who are on the front lines and those who continue to utilize public transportation throughout santa clarita. This is crucial for dvers safety and we hope that this measure stays in place to ensure theprotection of the individuals. We look forward to the implementation of the policy so our buses can continue to get our community around all the while knowing we are doing everything possible to minimizethis health risk to our workers and thank you for the matter and for the opportunity to provide comment.7:45 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: hello, this is monica melon with silicon valley climate action and we appreciate this ear door boarding and it's really important that we save money and save lives. It was what it was supposed to be for in the cares act. We really hope we continue to do this as long as necessary and hoping there is also consideration in improving health and safety and even after the pandemic. Thank you.7:46 PMThank you. I think that was all of our public speakers. I will close the public comment section. Coming back to see if there are any other comments from my colleagues. Member simitian?Thank you. i'm going to pass.Okay, before we go on, would any other colleagues like to add to this?Okay, we are moving on to the chairperson's report. I would like to update you on the section 218 efforts going on that will protect social security enefits for our employees. Today, just today, the ballots have been mailed out to each active vta employee. The voting beginning February 8th through March 9, 9:00 p. M. .Ballots will be counted March 10th. We are launching an aggressive campaign to bring awareness of the ballots and importance of voting. To the employees who are tuned in, please remember these important details. No. 1, an x marks your ballot. I just want to go ahead and repeat this. We have some very specificrules that are governed by the bodies that are above us from social security. You must use an x, nothing else. We don't fill in the box or anything else like that. There is a box on the ballot and you must put an x and keep the x in the shape of the box. Those are the rules. We want to you vote early. Mail it off at the dropboxes and specific locations we have for you. Please, please, remind your colleagues to vote. This isreally important. I want to take this opportunity to thank our labor groups. Acme and taea for the commitment to their process. They reached out and continue to reach out to their members using theirrespective communication channels. I want to go ahead and say it again, the entire time we have been working on this agreement, it has been an extremely collaborative process between vta staff, managementand our labor teams. So I just want to thank everybody who has been involved in that with thecollaborative nature that we've shown in being able to try to get the communication out to our members so they can vote yes. There is only a single item that is on the ballot and what the yes vote does is yes preserves the pension and social security benefits for all of our past, current and future employees. So, is it's really really important, pleadings vote yes with an x. That concludes my report. Elaine, I want to double check. Do we do public comments on my report?7:49 PMYes, we can take public comment on chairperson reports.Okay, we are going to go ahead and go to our public speakers then.Mr. Lebron, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. So the first thing I would like to bring to your attention is that there is messings correspondence in the packet because you and I have an exchange about vta ridership which is actually 30% of precovid, not 12-14% as you stated. And I hope that you and evelyn will be better prepared next month. Going back to the previous item but the extension was. I expect that you report on bart ridership extension.7:50 PMThank you. that was the end of our public comment. Are there any items of concern and referral to administration?7:51 PMMember bert.Yes, just to confirm that member lebron about bart and that was not on the agenda and I took notice of that. It has been something that was just kind of standing on the agendas we know, so I was very interested in getting an update on that and traditionally it was under 7. 1. That is why the interim generalmanager did include that on her report. I would ask that we in the future keep that on the agenda. Thank you for including it n a verbal update today.7:52 PMThank you. member simitian?Thank you. I just wanted to ask, Mr. Chair, in passing a few minutes ago, staff was kind enough to indicate that we had some late arriving or additional arriving correspondence but did not indicate what that was. Iwonder if we can ask staff to identify what that was to make sure that we all have all the correspondence that I should have reviewed or can review following the meeting.Elaine, would you like to share anything?Yes, Mr. Chair. typically we would send an e-mail to the board anything we've added to the packet. We have a deadline of 1:00 p. M. To receive any public comments and anything received before that time, wetry to make sure it's placed in the packet and send out to the board members and all the subscribers. With public written comments received after that deadline, we would post that on the website after the meetingends and you will receive another e-mail from us. So we get a lot of e-mails from us basically. You will get another e-mail from us tomorrow.7:53 PMThank you very much.Thank you.We are done there. now to 8. 4. Does anyone have any announcements? okay. I'm nothing seeing anyannouncements. We are going to need you to go to close closes. Item 9. 1 was removed. We are on the discussing 9. 1. 3, p. M. Employment. For board members, the closed session link has been sent to you by the board office. Please click that link or call in. Board members, if you are leaving zoom here, please make sure your zoom video and microphone are turned off while we are in closed session. We are going to closed session because I need you all to come back to report what happens. At this time we are going to convene to closed session. I will meet you8:45 PMRecording was Paused8:46 PMAll there.To the board members, I want to let you know that I sent an update calendarHello, folks.This is cindy. my video won't go on.Elaine, just let me know when you have enough people.I'm here, magdalena. certainly sergio from san jose.I'm here.We are reconvening back to open session. There were no reportable actions taken during closed session.I'm going to thank my colleagues for being here and the public for participating and thanks, everybody.Stay safe. We are adjourning at 8:46. Thank you very much.8:47 PMThank you very much, Mr. Chair. Take care.