We are going to get our meeting started. I'm going to call the meeting to order. This is the regular meeting of October 1, 20205:31 PMAt this time, I would like to ask my colleagues to unmute yourself so we can get roll.Clerk: [roll call]Present.5:32 PMMadam chair, we have a quorum.Thank you.I want to ask if anyone was missed.I May have been.We are going to count you as being here. I'm now going to ask if glen can ead us in the pledge of allegiance. If you are able to, please flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.5:33 PM> i'm now going to move to orders of the day. Included is the recommended language for sr 83. The revised report is on the online packet. Are there any changes from my colleagues?I don't see any changes. we will adjourn tonight's meeting to former member charlotte powers. Charlotte passed away this week. And charlotte served on the san jose city council from 1992 to 2000. She was oneof the founding board members of vta serving n the board from 1995 to 2000 and as board chair in 1998 and also the chair of the board and she served in many non-profits. She served on vta's citizens advisory committee for many many years and was the chairperson of the committee for a couple times. Charlotte was an advocate for affordable housing, workers right, the preservation of the environment and the arts.She was a fearless and passionate leader. I know many people who were with us today knew her and really cared about her and she was a lot of fun to be around and incredibly kind public servants. Thank you forletting me honor her that way. As a reminder, May I have a motion to approve the orders of the day. I think there is a good chance that we honored to do a memoriam.5:35 PMA motion by member carr and hendricks.We have comments from the members of the public as well.Thank you.I am now going to the members of the public for orders of the day. Public comment will be in after we do awards. So this will speak to orders of the day.Okay. we haveThank you, of course this is only one minute. We must remember that everybody who raised their hands, cindy chavez, that you must address every person that be raises their hand. It's not there is 60 people and we are only going to listen to 30. That is disrespectful to people who are here when we address the board.We are in a crisis that eeds to be addressed and the voice of the people is what is missing in our community. So when you -- it's disrespectful to not honor every person that is there even if you give them 30 seconds in the beginning of the meeting. That is essential to recognize the honor, the people that arethere. So you hear the people.5:37 PMPublic speaker: madam chair, I would like to know if you are going to hear this item after item 1.Public speaker: hi, I just wanted to thank you for allowing public comment on orders of the day. Roland just described the use of the orders of the day and how it could be used by the public. Good luck with that and hope to work things out. Thank you.I want to be clear on what roland wanted to hear.He wanted to hear 7.5 after 7. 1.5:38 PMI think that's fine.We have one more public comment if you would like to take it.Of course.Evelyn, you May begin speaking when ready.Public speaker: I just want to say I have been a writer for vta and for work and leisure. I hope we can come to a resolution to not cut services. It's impactful for lots of members of our community. I find it shameful in one of our richest valleys that we don't have enough money for vta transit. I come from newyork and we need to keep vta at full throttle and keep everybody at play. I hope we can come up with a viable solution to keep vta 100%. I need to get to work and I have for the last 0 years. I ask that you please consider viable solutions to keep vta fully funding and not cut services.5:40 PMThank you. we have a motion and second that includes hearing 7. 5 after 7. 1.I'm going to ask for a role call vote. Excuse me, we have two members who want to speak.I want to say thank you for honoring charlotte powers. She was a wonderful friend and she gave me a wonderful impression on what public service can be. I'm just very grateful for having known her. Thank you.Thank you for your thoughts, sam.Larry?I want to make sure the maker of the motion and orders of the day, it's fine to include 7. 5 after 7. 1 and I do thank you for honoring charlotte.Thank you. I know a lot of our staff knew her and feel deeply as well. Thank you for that.Can we get the vice-chair to second that original motion?5:41 PMYes. he does.Thank you.All right. we are going to have a roll call vote.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passed.Thank you. we are going to awards and commendation. They have joined us on zoom. I'm glad that they are here. This is for employees and supervisors for the 4th quarter of 2020. Our first honoree is recognize thalia young, board assistant, office of the board secretary; she has been with us for a while and she has received much praise. Thalia, we are going to give you a let's give a round of applaus applause.Congratulations.5:42 PMNext. chaboya operations; he served as the ole model as a chaboya operator and he provides great customer service to his passengers. Where is he? There you are. Let's give a round of applause. Thank you for being with us. Would you make sure we said your name properly. How do you say it? ou are on mute.5:43 PMYou said it rght.Thank you. congratulations and thank you for your service. We like the hat and shirt.Okay.All right.Next I get to introduce hawthorne, light rail signal maintainer, way, power, & signal department; asemployees of the fourth (4th) quarter of 2020; bill is also with us. Let's give a round of applause. We are glad you are with us.5:44 PMTransportation engineer, rail & facilities programs department, as supervisor of the fourth (4th) quarter of 2020. Where is he? all right. Let's give a round of applause.I would like to congratulate all the employees for 4th quarter f 2020. I want to thank you for your incredible service especially during covid-19. Vta has not let the public down. Thank you for all of yourservice and your leadership. All of you. 3. Public comment reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. The lawdoes not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under special circumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing. Public speaker: good afternoon, board. I'm speaking to the pandemic and as our economy is being affected, that you will becutting transit and that is affecting the mobility of our residents including my family who are essential workers and myself. I encourage the board to do whatever it takes to void -- avoid this. I know mygrandmother and mother go to the grocery store and as well as I use it for work nd every function of my life. Thank you for considering this.5:47 PMThank you. next is tessa. Public speaker: how are we going to save ourselves and save nature when we have seven years to reduce our c02 emissions. What are you going to do? Radical change is necessary andyet you refuse to collect our sales tax from measure b and taking long to respond to our crisis to respond to our urgent needs locally. We are dealing with a biblical proportion along with many disasters. People arerunning out of their homes through mega fires outside of california and western states. We need to bring transit to santa clara county.5:48 PMThank you. next is roland. you May begin speaking when ready.Public speaker: thank you, madam chair. For the record, I did have a change of order and thank you for that and the comments for orders of the dy. Next thing I want to talk to you about is I already mentioned as an issue and any enumeration of the agenda. Just an example here. You have one and then roll call which is 1. 1, pledge 1. 2 and orders of the day, 1. 3 and then you have public comment and then it's worse when you get to consent. I would like to talk about the lady who said there is no funding source to vta, there is. In 1976 and we increased paratransit in measure a. Thank you. Public speaker: I personal donot use public ransportation because I like to bike to places. But people who need public transportation aretreated unfairly. It's similar. For bicyclist, we have very narrow lanes and cars can just take the freeway. To make bikes more acessible, we need to make traveling on bicycles easier than traveling by cars. Places like india where i'm from, using transportation is a lot easier than using this. And if we have one car per household because public transportation is really accessible. In india we have public transportation and bus stops add every stops and we have dedicated bus lanes. We need to do something imilar in our place.Thank you.5:50 PM> thank you. next speaker please. Eugene, you May speak when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening,5:51 PMCan you hear me?Yes.This is eugene from the silicon valley transit users. I also echo the earlier comments about the tax dollars while it seems that most using local transit are suffering here. One thing that I can suggest s that vta should do everything it can to save transit users in santa clara county and even with the funds where it's not as it is in alameda county. That's something I will bring up to the board of supervisors. Without thisfunding in transit with silicon valley, it will be dead. Think about this. Thank you.Next speaker please. kelly, you May begin speaking hen ready. Public speaker:5:52 PMHi, thank you so much for allowing us time to speak. I'm kelly macy. Vice-president of 3 development and metropolitan and working with the city and vta to develop the site across the street from santa clara station. And i'm calling to ask the vta board for support of the extension of the ena to continue to move through the development, issues on the tble. We have made great progress over the last couple months and more specifically, I just wanted to share of the great progress we have made with the community. So I have spent a great deal of time reaching out to folks and been getting ery great responses, great suggestions including moving retail from el camino and across the station and I look forward to continuingthat dialogue with everyone. Thank you.5:53 PMThank you. next speaker please. Public speaker: a reminder when speaking o government in oakland. East bay has a history of working towards more labor union and working class across democratic party ideals where most of them come from republican sources and possibly new ideas. It's funny how they turn their ideas onto their own and factoring their point of views towards their values and not owards austereity. And also note caltrain is willing to ake a million dollar loss and to concentrate on equity and public transit service. This is a go between time for these sort of issues. Thank you.5:54 PMThank you.Perry, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Unfortunately, you will need to dial the telephone number.5:55 PMIt's on the next page of the agenda.Next speaker please. public speaker: hello. 'm with transit and climate action. I'm calling with strong opposition as any major cuts to service. As we know, these buses are used by our essential workers and to cut public transit for these workers who are called essential. These bus lines are important to meet our environmental goals as well as bring equity to those who are unable to be housed at places they work at.The current plan really cuts down on a lot of connectivity on the plan. The 77% plan cuts down and los altos doesn't deserve a line and this is unequitable and vta only focuses on a select group of people. Next speaker please.5:56 PMChristine. public speaker: thank you for letting me speak. I'm very concerned about the cuts because it will affect transit riders in the county and more important in reducing the number of buses in certain areas nd eliminating others will cause greater hardship because folks can't get from one place to another. By bus or paratransit. Anyway pair paratransit service will be second. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, everyone. My name is natasha and i'm with an organization enabling young people in silicon valley to organize with important items around them like transit. Me and my family use transit almost everyday and it has a hugeimpact on the climate and reduced traffic. We should be building more housing around this issue. The 20% proposed transit cut would devastate my commute and my ability to get to and from my need and my family would not be able to get the critical resources they need. I urge you to save transit. Thank you.5:58 PMPublic speaker: i'm wang troung. I'm not okay with this cut. What if they can't get to work at all? They will lose their jobs and end up on the street. If they lose their housing, it difficult to get a job. It's difficult to look presentable for an interview. There is a 30 year lag between the greenhouse gasses are emitted and felt. I urge you to save transit. This jeopardize our climate goals. This can be too late. Our youngsters future cannot wait. Please extend to a minute 1/2.5:59 PMNext speaker please. gary, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker:6:00 PMI'm a rising sophomore. today i'm here with turnout for transit. When my grandparents lived in the united states they relied on the vta transit system to visit me and my sister every weekend. Without these buses, my parents would be largely separated because my parents are working and my grandparents are too old to drive. We rely on this system and when the funds run out, they will be definitely stranded. Please do whatever you can to save transit and thank you for your time. And consideration.Thank you. christina, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hello, my name is christina, a resident of san jose and also an active student at deanza colleges. A lot of students rely on vta to get toschool. If transit is cut, college will be more in abbing accessibl -- inaccessible to students. Please save transit.6:01 PMHi there, my name is logan and a resident of palo alto and graduate of the university. I'm with a group of young activist trying to achieve a greener deal on the national level and a model for our planet. You shouldprovide a low carbon reliable transportation particularly our community members of color. As a graduate student, I have relied heavily on public transportation in order to get my grocery and to get things to survive and visiting friends in my area. I urge you to maintain the capacity and save transportation for our community members. Thank you.6:02 PMExt speaker please. public speaker: thank you for your time. My name is mikely, a resident of cupertino. I have lived in santa clara county my whole life. And this is an issue that has been downgrading this county's quality of life n recent years. I care about the environment and live ability in california in the future. I don't want to live in a state that is constantly ravaged by fire and smoke and I want my community to invest in climate change and not cut its budget. This cut will hinder the ability of essential workers to get to their jobs. I urge this council to consider solutions to save public transit without relying on privatization. Thank you.6:03 PMThank you. public speaker: hi, my name is shahim. I'm living in sunnyvale. I ride the caltrain fromsunnyvale to my parents house. I don't have a car and this allows me to be there for them when they need it. And frequent cuts will affect the caltrain and less reliable and I wouldn't be able to make this trip s often. When we open back up, we'll be making decisions about which transportation mode we can rely on.Please don't lose riders to cars as we are starting to ake these critical transit modes going forward. Please maintain transit frequency. Thank you for your time.6:04 PMDavid, you May begin speaking when ready.Hello,Can you hear me?Yes.Excellent. I work in san jose but live outside santa clara county. Before covid I was taking vta to work. For me personally a 30% cut would be really bad in terms of my ability to get to work and how frequent the buses go. I hope this doesn't happen and for the sake of essential workers that their services don't get ct. Ihope you can ensure that the cuts that have been discussed don't have under any circumstances. Thank you.6:05 PMNext speaker please. brian? public speaker: for the record, my name is brian prescott. I'm still deeply concerned about the budget cuts to vta that are being considered. If you ask me, other I think instead of a 30% cut, we should probably have a 30% addition of service because the connectivity of the network is what pulls in ridership. You can look at trends in connectivity and service that is provided over time and see the ridership follows it very closely. So, if we want to reduce traffic in this city and if we want to reduce the carbon emissions, this is the way to go. I went to los angeles and it has big highways all over the place and the traffic is not a fun part of the city. I hope in the future for the sake of equity, for the sake of greenness and for saving people's time that you would consider investing in transit. Thank you.6:06 PMThank you. monica, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, my name is monica melon.For turnout for transit. 23 years old and I have been taking transit all of my life and very grateful for thetransit and the opportunities that it gave me. As I have been getting older, I have seen the route and ransit system shrink over and over. At this point i'm worried that at some point it going to disappear and not going to be anything left. I really feel like this is at risk of happening with 70-80% plans and we really need to make sure that transit is up to 100% when this pandemic is over so people who are struggling can get transit. So I really want to rge you to do everything you can with these cuts and take whatever risks are necessary. Thank you.6:08 PMPublic speaker: good evening, everyone. Vince rocha, silicon valley. I'm speaking on item 4 about the proposed extension between vta and the santa clara county metropolitan. This is a high density area andmetropolitan is working hard with a solution with vta and will come to fruition. It's to everybody's benefit to get a win-win here. I'm in support of the ena extension.Thank you, vince. next speaker please. Public speaker: hi, my name is annabelle law. I have been insunnyvale all of my life. I'm currently at deanza college and i'm speaking for transit and turnout for transit.For most students and essential workers will lose an invaluable mode of transportation. Transportationplays a large role on our climate and local traffic and affordable housing. I strongly urge vta to consider solutions to save public transit for their community members and as an act to respond to the growingclimate crisis. Thank you for your time. .6:09 PMEily, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, names emily thomas and I live in san joseand a local science teacher and for los gatos and public transit. I'm asking you to save transit as an alternative to a cut. It's an important part to me because it's a key part in addressed climate in our areaand important for saving greenhouse gas emissions and we need to save this and ability to live here. We need o use these services to get to and from the area. Earlier in this year, in the midst of a pandemic, I called an uber for a man who could not get on the bus due to loss of operations. Cutting this would not help the members of our community.6:11 PMI think we are not able to unmute you. All right. I think we can hear you now. Public speaker: good evening, my name is perry and i'm with the high school. I'm with youth climate action team and turnoutfor transit. I'm heartbroken by the wildfire, smoke and heat wave that are causing the health of me and my peers. Even though we are in this heat, people still take transit and transit is still a necessity. Byprioritizing transit you can help the multitude of transit dependent people in this county.6:12 PMThank you. for the clerk, 8181 will be the last speaker on this item.Thank you, chair. .Next speaker please. public speaker: hi, my name is neil and I have lived in cupertino my whole life. I wantto make sure that the board considers alternatives to making sure cuts cu, right now there are not a lot of transit users. My car broke and I no longer have access to a vehicle. There will come a time when the coronavirus will come to an end and with these services, when services are cut, they don't come back. It's important that we maintain service for those who need it most so we don't reach a point of no return.Thank you so much.6:13 PMThank you.Patrick, followed by william, followed by the last four digits 8181. Public speaker: thank you so much, my name is patrick arians, from the deanza college board of trustees. I'm speaking for myself and want to speak out against the 30% cuts especially the vta routes where it affects a lot of our students who rely so heavily on transit to get to community college. Many of their family members go community college. I would like to thank the board for partnering with the community college and the passes that was not a thing when I was a student. I would love to continue to work with you to find proactive solutions to avoid these really needed routes for our students make sure they have access and affordability to higher education. Thank you so much.6:14 PMWilliam, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hello, I am william tang, many people will be affected with these cuts. I still rely on transit to go to public libraries and conduct my research. Cutting ransit is essential for workers during this whole pandemic. In addition, as our skies are blanketed with ash, we need our transportation systems. Having cuts at this moment will make that task a lot harder. I urge this board to consider alternatives to the 30% cut as to minimize or prevent these cut cuts. I yield my time.6:15 PMPhone number ending in 818. you May begin speaking when ready.6:16 PMCan you hear me?Yes.Hello, this is emmy -- to the chair and board of directors. I'm calling in support for the extension with -- nd I have had the opportunity to call in regarding the project. I love this project in our vicinity and for vta.Also for what it's going to do for the neighborhood. The downtown santa clara is doing some renovationand bringing back its downtown and I know the public is working with the quad area and making sure that this project would help support that. So, for those reasons and many more and advocate of transit for a long time, I would hope you would extend this ena. Thank you for6:17 PMThank you, for those that are still on the line, this is the only time that you will be able to speak on an agenda item. If you spoke on x or y, that is your time to do so.We have no public hearings. we are going to committee reports. We will go to (cac) chairperson's report.(verbal report) (schulter)Good evening. before I start my report, I did want to say a couple things about charlotte powers. I had the opportunity to work with the board while she was the chair. She was the golden standard of public service nd she will be severely missed. At our board meeting, the cac provided ts annual report and provided feedback of the annual report to the public. The cac expressed more desire to intuitive graphics to relatedexpenditures. We are talking about media on the web and suggested media web and staff is presenting next week to provide versions of the annual report and its findings and with regard to the report, it achieves -- ads and newspapers. That concludes my report.6:19 PMWe are going on to the next item. Do we take public comment on each item?Excuse me. as chair, as long as you provide an opportunity for folks to speak, it should be appropriate for you to take all the public comments at one time.Okay, great, i'm going to take all of five. Thank you.The (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (constantine) is in your online packet. Chairpersons' report.(verbal report) they are also online but I know that chappie wanted to make a report tonight.6:20 PMThank you, chair. the standing committee met September 16th. We received information about the annualtransit operations performance report and the safety plan roll out. We forwarded a couple items ontonight's consent agenda item 6. 7 and 6. 8. I also want to share with you that on Monday September 21st, I had the opportunity to experience the new training tool. I heard about the high bus traffic simulator, there are others that will put you in the driver's seat. Vta has more bells and whistles and we are leading the way in this technology. In fact, vta attended our drill last week because they are looking tocontinue in our footsteps to get one of these. Sf mta are also considering doing it. It allows our officers and veterans train in a safe environment with realistic views and other elements. For example, I tried it out, and as the bus turned and hit a pothole on the road, I felt everything as if I was driving real bus. I want tothank vta, atu, joint workforce and ission college for helping to secure 46$466,000 in federal funding for this project. Our group started working with this technology in september. I want to add a caveat thatusing that simulator, you should thank god every morning that i'm not out there driving the bus because that would not be a good situation, but it is state of the art technology and we are proud we have it.6:22 PMChappie, thank you for that. that is very good news. Thank you.We'll get to item chairpersons' report. (verbal report) this is also available in the online packet. With that, 'm going to any comments from my colleagues on these reports. Seeing none, i'm going to move to public comment and then we'll move on to our next item.6:23 PM> tessa, you May begin when you are ready. Public speaker: the timer is down. I didn't understand whatcindy chavez said about public comment. She just cut us off, our policies like you cindy chavez have failed us. You should let us know how many people you cutoff and following how many people you cutoff cindywhich is rude and caring which we have to show love and caring to our fellowman during covid-19 and you did not do that. On the report of corrupted governments to vta is to cutoff public comment. This is wrong.Your cold calculated dismissal of those today you ignore us which is wrong. You must stop it and document who is there and give everybody 15 seconds to say what they are there for so you startling to us which is what you don't d. This is the problem. This is why we are in a world of hurt.6:24 PMRoland, you May begin speaking when ready.Thank you, madam chair. what I would like to talk about is the cac report and they actually did not approve the report for your consideration. This actually pertains to June 2019. We are going to have to wait at least another year to find out what happened to measure a in June 2020.6:25 PMAnyway, in 2019, we spent $100 million more than we had in revenues and when it comes to 7. 1 which by the way, the slide is missing. You will discover that you have $2 million on bart that is done with any measure a left for next year. Thank you.Blair, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, there was a lot of public comment today andit was nice. Thank yu.And for this item, thank you is always for the work of the cac and the other committee reports given tonight. Thank you.6:26 PMSupervisor cindy chavez: all right. With that, we are going to items 6. 1 through 6. 6.Question by mayor liccardo.6:27 PMCan I ask a question about 6. 3.Just to make sure we are in grace graces, we can pull it.Okay, we are going to pull item 6. 3. Are there any comments from my colleagues?Seeing none, we are going to public comment.Blair followed by roland. you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: all right. Thank you. To speak to item 6. 1 and new bus stations. Can some sort of ethics committee be established for standards for all that has been approved for vta transit stations. Item 6. 2, $4. 1 million in technology, I hope I can open how this modernization is in the speeches in the u. N. Assemblies last week. Good luck that we can all remember that we grew up with mass transit ideas and that you are doing that sort of work. Thank you.6:28 PMRoland, you May begin speaking when ready.Thank you. I would like to speak to item 68. Now we are going to have a third station at diridon. There is going to be a light-rail station, and dock station and light-rail station scattered all over the place. This brings us back to item 7. 5 and we are talking about some kind of agreement with diridon. I would put it to you that we could be raising a tremendous amount from google if you have the alignment and buried it some where in the air of santa clara. And sell all that prime real estate to google and at the end of the day, guess wat, we are going to add up with a fully integrated station with sub30 second transfers. Wouldn't that be wonderful? thank you.6:29 PMTessa, you May begin speaking when ready.Thank you. public speaker: this is tessa. The item i'm discussing is 6. 5. We have to stop alking about cars.My husband is a scientist and he says it a boat anchor and we are in the epa with saving our air and quality of life and we should be saving ourselves. How are we going to save ourselves and nature when wehave two years to reduce emissions. We are facing a crisis of proportions and it time to cut that and deal with our local --6:30 PMThank you. we've no more public comments on these items. I'm now going back to the board for the consent calendar. Mayor liccardo, on the consent calendar?Thank you. I just had a question or two about 6. 3 about --We took it off consent.I'm sorry. I didn't pull my hand down.That's right. I didn't want to miss you.6:31 PMMember hendricks?Council member hendricks: i'm ready to make a motion. I move the consent calendar with the exception of 6. 3.May I have a motion? a motion and second from chappie.Any further discussion? hearing nor seeing none. I'm going to ask for a roll call vote.This is for the consent agenda item 6. 1-6. 2 and 6. 4 through 6. 11.6:32 PM[roll call]Motion passes, madam chair.Thank you. i'm now going to take up item 6. 3. 6. 3. Action item - accept the sr 85 corridor policy advisoryboard (pab) recommendation for a transit lane project on sr 85 and proceed with an alternatives analysis.There is some updated language in your packet. With that, i'm going to the public and then come to theboard for a discussion.> public speaker: all right. We are looking at 6. 3, sr 85 with highways. I just realized that sue ellenberg said she doesn't know much about transit. We need to have our bored # board of directors of vta, to know how we are going to save ourselves. We need people in leadership, we should not have people that saythey don't know about public transit. This is wrong. We need to change our board nd those are the ones that have the best solutions to our crisis.6:33 PMNeil, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: this is neil for transit and organization.Myself and many other community advocates worked really hard to get this to where it is now. This advisory board worked very much to get through on the request. I think it's very important that we honor this longstanding commitment to the west valley. Myself and others advocated to measure b. It was when I was a deanza student and this was for transit and his hasn't happened yet. This is for the connected corridor and also just in general, this has been a promise for a very long time. Going back to 1992 in thecountywide plan and measure a in 2000 and measure a in 2016. It's about fairness here to ensure we are holding our word over to those in the west.6:35 PMBefore we go forward, chair, I want to note for the record that we did receive public comment from the following: manzanita works, cunningham, lloyd holmes, judy minor and silicon valley youth climatechange, loma prieta, city of cupertino, city of mountain view and city of saratoga, and letter from the fremont union high school district and cupertino union school district and the letter from the city ofmountain.Next speaker please. is roland. Public speaker: thank you and very briefly. The first thing I would like to do is to recognize director peralez for supporting the context for the same kind of data from the corporate schultz as san francisco is currently getting. The other thing I wanted to talk about is there is a discussionright now that the corporate shuttles will not use the lane, however you will be charged for them. What I would suggest to look at no charging a corporate shuttle if it's electrified just as the carpoolers as last year.6:36 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when ready.6:37 PMHi, thank you. to try to clarify my last words to be able to work on pedestrian and bicycle lanes, that's animportant concept of trails. That's to work on pedestrian nd bicycle trails, that's an important concept, thank you. For this item, i'm just learning the ideas, is this a -- apital improvement program and that could help vta issues for the next couple years. It seems that you have good intentions with this project. To make capital improvement program projects make the public aware of that and how that can be a revenueincome source. That should be an important concept and hopefully we can be open and talk about that.Thank you.6:38 PMThank you. next speaker please. Rod? You May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you verymuch. As the public comment from so many agencies, our cities, environmental advocates have noted, we do have support for this program. This was a unanimous vote for the vta to be able to move this transitforward of dedicated transit lanes and the narrative of this corridor was not refuted effectively by the memo of the silicon valley valley group dated august 10th, showing 5644 average daily riders in 2019. Ihope that you will honor the commitment that our voters made together to further this project and continue it into the next phase. It's the right way rather than simply widening the road for cars. Thank you.6:39 PMThank you. monica, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, this is monica, I really want to urge you to accept the sr 85 corridor recommendation about the transit lane. I'm personally really excited about this project. As I said earlier. I think this is something that will really make it a lot easier to go to thewest valley and north county and something that a lot of people have mentioned has been planned for a very long time. This was planned before I was even born. I think it's important to keep with this commitment and move forward. Thank you.6:40 PMNext speaker please. jim, you May speak when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, mayor liccardo for pulling this item. My request would be that the stevens creek train extensions be built as part of this project whatever the project turns out to be. It's in the corridor and meets all the project objectives, probably better than the freeway project does. Building the stevens creek trail extensions using the project money will free up the bike ped money that otherwise would go stevens creek trail. Free it up so it goes to san jose since it didn't get unding for the bike ped measure b allotment. Vta can stop this practice separate but equal. That didn't work in south africa. You have to look at the whole corridor solution. Thank you. Into the natasha, you May begin speaking when ready.6:41 PMHi, everyone. my name is natasha and a resident of los gatos, california. I urge you to accept the transit lane sr 85 to implement the transit lane that will make a huge difference to bus riders throughout siliconvalley. Thank you.Thank you.6:42 PMYou -- eugene?Public speaker: hi. This is eugene. The bicycle pedestrian parks and pathways and the minority areas that never seem to get addressed. In addition, the transit corridor, if it is to be built should be extended up to santa teresa o connect with the county. Thank you. Our last public speaker will be -- coyan.6:43 PMPublic speaker: it often takes me an hour to an hour-and-a-half to just get around san jose. We need traffic signal pre-emption to sped up public traffic. I urge you to accept that proposal.Thank you. i'm going back to the board for discussion. I know that john mcallister has his hand up. I'm going to you and then to mayor liccardo to you since you asked to have this pulled.Yes, I would like to make the motion that we accept the sr 85 corridor recommendation for the transit lane for sr 85.We have a motion from Mr. Mcallister and Mr. Rob rennie. i'm now going to mayor liccardo.Thank you. staff, I just wanted to understand better since we talked about this in committee and it wasn't entirely clear to me what the motion was coming. I'm not really clear in recollecting when we were in thediscussion with this committee, do you recall from the capital program committee?6:44 PMMadam chair, if I may, I would like to ask debra to address the mayor's question.Thank you.Yes, this was a clean recommendation to accept the sr 85 corridor recommendation. And the clarity that was offered to to the committees was an alternative active analysis to look at the details and what theoptions are for implementation and look at both the design as well as the travel demand that we based on those definitions.6:45 PMOkay, and I recall and the report on page 5 that we are particularly interested in the private shovel demand because vta has indicated that it doesn't meet its own productivity threshold standards for public transit. So, is that where we would be focusing on as a threshold issue as a private shuttle demand?That would be one aspect. the way I characterize this as a finding as the alternative was defined, it did not meet the threshold and if here were an alternative to justify public transit but we will also look at shuttles as a component of the transit lane.6:46 PMThank you. i'm not that excited about this particular option based on what i'm reading on the staff reportwhich is on page 3. It actually has lower through put with an assumption of 100 full buses than the general freeway lane and believe me, i'm not an advocate for more freeway lanes. That's not what i'm pushing for.Page 3, suggests it won't reduce vmt. It May increase vehicle miles traveled. And it won't improve public transit. Before we get too fixated on this option, i'm hoping that we might take a deep breath to considerwhat else is out there and I know it's important to study options. I don't blame everybody for the fact that this one is hard and very difficult because this is a relatively low density of this part. We could be using this money for local bus service in those same areas, we could be using this money for expresslanes and congestion pricing that could generate dollars for bike projects, for bus service, for pet projects and pedestrian, that is. We could be engaging on the development strategy along the corridor that would besupportive of transit. We could be spending the money instead in the west valley along stevens creek.There is a lot that we can be doing to serve west valley without having to feel we need to be committed to fit a square peg into a round hole. This doesn't look super promising. I know we are starting the study and going to learn something but i'm hoping we keep our eyes open and we will save more money to improveridership to listen and get too wetted the idea of a transit up 85. Until cities are interested in building 200 units to the acre, it simply is very difficult to ustify transit particularly along a freeway corridor where necessarily those stops are going to be pretty lonely out post where folks are going to be very distant fromany kind of ense residential or job center. They are going to have to do a lot of walking to get to those stops and it's not a formula for success. I guess we have seen this before in vta.6:49 PMI'm sorry, john?I will get to him netxt. he just unmute himself.Anyway, i'm going to vote for this very reluctantly. This is not a great fit for our geography topography. I think we ought to keep our eyes open to not simply doing a transit study, but let's go transit anddevelopment study. If cities really want transit in this corridor, then let's build land use appropriate for transit. I'm going to be the first to admit that san jose built a transit system that it was not ready for back in the 1990s when we decided to build the light rail and the corridor. That was doomed to be a failure and Ithink history as proven that the ridership has been awful. I think we ought to be thinking more holistically about land use and transit together than to say well, we have an obligation here, let's go forward.6:50 PMThank you, sam. i'm going to larry, john and then rob.Thank you, chair. I don't disagree with mayor liccardo's comments and as we had that conversation incommittee, we wanted to make sure we included in what was going to be talked about tonight and on going study. The 85 corridor does ot just serve the communities adjacent to the will 5 corridor.Constituents that we all serve in south ounty and beyond are the ones sitting on that freeway everyday.We want to make sure that as we are thinking about a transit study on 85, that we think about thecatchment area and is it really feasible for an express bus coming out of gilroy to use a transit and get out and robably transit could. Those are the benefits we might be able to find as we get into this a little bit deeper. Let's make sure we remember in there that we are deb egg -- going to be looking at a broader category than just the sr 85 corridor.6:51 PMI wanted to are # -- reassure samantha this is study is going to be more. That is just one scenario that the alternative analysis looked at based on some stops and the policy advisory board got away from having those stops. And based on that premise, that scenario is not incorporated right now. What I understand that deep dive will take care of ome of your concerns of what you saw on this project. Those are very narrow sopes, but in fact it did not even have the whole 85 transit corridor but one at mountain view. Ourgoal was to get those from the collective areas to bay shore and where the jobs are. I appreciate you bringing up things and thank you for your support, but I think along the lines, you will get what you want, a horough study.6:52 PMThanks, john. rob?6:53 PMThank you, chair. , i'm talking to sam. What larry said I was going to say too. This is a narrow study and we want to think creatively and sort of the not usual study. We are really bringing a lot of people from the south up past us. It's not just do we get on and off this corridor. I hesitate a little bit to bring this up, but, I compare this maybe from the other perspective to the eastridge light rail project and I realize dave is not here to defend himself but I talked to supervisor cortese about why he was such a strong supporter of the light rail project to eastridge when the study say it's going to take years before there is nough ridership to meet our minimum standards. And he said to me, I think that the studies really were thorough enough to say what the ridership is going to be. He has confidence it's going to be more. So, I have reluctantlysupported the light rail project and we've talked about can we make ways of operating it cheaper and I feel like looking at the other direction where you might have some hesitancy but in that case with light railalready going forward, let's say we look at it more boadly, more creatively and see if it does work. We often say that transit doesn't work but please don't stop to making it work. Some of your comments did say that, you said what can we do with development and be creative. I'm asking please go over it more onthis.6:55 PMThank you, rob. mayor liccardo?My colleagues points are really well-taken which is to look at the whole corridor from gilroy north. I wonder if it would be worth incorporating that study, what land uses would be required to make this moreattractive for transit riders. I know that we believe that extending the scope, the geographic scope of this study will result in more riders, but I would suspect that we need to have points of origin along the way which means some density. I think it would be important in studying that as part of this study so we have the whole picture bout when and how to develop transit along the corridor.6:56 PM> is there a concern about this? I think it was member mcallister that made a motion and if we want to get a second to that. But there is no problem with the content?No.Okay.John, are you comfortable adding that?I would like to ask debra if what sam suggested is already part of the study?However we characterize is what mayor liccardo would suggest as part of the study and to be discussed at the next meeting.Debra, it's not part of it now but could be?Correct.Thank you.John, are you open to that part of the motion?6:57 PMIt seems, no, because I want to concentrate on this transit corridor. I think debra is going to take a look some of that information.She's not. you could very easily say yes, I would like to look at this density on the corridor. John, are youcomfortable with that?Define, when you say land use.Maybe I can help, john. I understand the variations you would want to study. One is where there is no changes to land use and that is the status quo. But I think we probably also want to understand otherways to boost transit ridership along that corridor with strategic locations of development and higher density and that is a question we ought to ask ourselves considering the timing of investment.6:58 PMDon't we do that already, sam. When people put in development, we already ask to look at development and how it affects transit?That's what private sector developers do but not what we are doing under this study unless we are directed to do so.Can we hear from other board members?We have jeannie and glen who have already raised their hands.I would like to hear from them first, please.Okay. jeannie and then glen.Thank you, chair. mayor, I hear where you are coming from and from my perspective on this. One of thethings that you see in the recommendation that came out of the policy advisory board is very clear language on May include stations in certain locations. And that is the reason we went to May nstead of it requires it is because of what is the land use around there and that really needs a deeper dive. So, I think by part of these alternative analysis study, we will be looking at where do you need to have appropriate placement of stations and one of the key criteria for a placement of station is whether or not there is density, a natural catchment area and such around it. I believe the subject matter will be covered as a result of having to figure out what are all the alternatives we are going to be looking at and I see debrawanting to jump in.6:59 PMNot to what director bruin is saying, but to the land -- I can say that we can look t what this land uses hat are existing and the plans that May mpact ridership and we can take it one step further and as we look atoptimum transit options, then we can do another deeper dive into what would the land uses be that would further ncrease transit use and then we are doing what's been asked of the pab which is well, if we had the transit we can do the let us and how those two pieces interact, but it would be very focused on when you get to the alternatives and the land use and the environmental analysis to have that as piece of the project.7:00 PMTo jump back in, I appreciate the way you phrased this because this is the type of chicken and egg type of problem because in order for cities to look at how they want to modify land uses, they need assurance that there is an even commitment. I mean how far are you going on the transit and if you tonight have transit, how can you commit to that and I live in a city that has the consequence of having too many cars on the corridor right now. Now my residents traveling to the 85 and mountain view and sunnyvale. We get thenegative consequences of all the cut through traffic because of all the congestion on there. So, again, I believe that we will cover it, but if the maker of the motion wanted to modify it to add that looking at land uses and/or stations that have that further enhance the ridership, I think, i'm supportive of that type of language personally.7:01 PMAll right. glen and then rob.7:02 PMI want to say I don't think i'm comfortable in adding this as part of the motion. In the way debra described it, his study is going to be multi-phased thing. To say go do the first phase of the study and this part my be the third part of the study. I'm just not comfortable with what this was and I think we are overcomplicating the discussion about let's go get more information about hat can be done with the right-of-way which is really the question that's in here and we've already seen the discussion with the sr 85 path is taking longer than anybody thought. So i'm just not supportive of the motion. Where it was a few minutes ago, I was ready to move on.7:03 PMRob?I think we should think about looking at the housing allocations. In los gatos, e think we are going to get 1953 for the next cycle in 2023. We are updating our general plan. I'm just giving an example of los gatos, the ones or the corridor. We are looking at the opportunity area to mprove density. Most of that is not inthe hills of los gatos from 85 but to north 40 and los gatos boulevard. So my thought, 2,000 units is a lot. I think it May contribute some to the viability but this might be a place for staff to consider with the coming, new arena assignments, where are those houses going to go and maybe gamble will put them close and saratoga doesn't have a big allocation and where would cupertino put theirs. I don't want to change the motion, but to think bout the analysis as we come to the arena allocations.7:04 PMAll right. are there any other comments from my colleagues? We have a motion on the floor from membermcallister. A second from rob to accept what's in the staff report. Mayor liccardo?Just a clarification, as the motion is stated, it would not include what debra articulated. I want to understand what's in and what's not.It's not included.It's not included?No. debra was saying you could include that.Okay.Go ahead, debra?I just want to clarify hat it's not explicitly included, but I think it's the flexibility as we scope the study to include these kind of investigations into the land uses within the scope. It's if you included in this motion, t's explicit.7:05 PMLet me just say, what jeannie just asked you to clarify was that we would be looking at stations but not land use. I think it's important, you don't have to try to make all of us happy here. It's not included and that's not a traditional way that we do it, that's okay. Let's just be frank about it. Personally just what my own thinking is, it's a really good idea. I will tell you why, what they try to do at a local level is housing and we do it at that level because we are not telling cities what should be and o say what's optimal about the transit system is a really great opportunity. What you say about the light rail, the eastridge light railalignment will end at four miles after we build 150 acres. My intent is where this should be going if it's not in motion now with the maker and the seconder, that's fine because we have to deal with the motion on the floor. Mayor liccardo?7:06 PMYeah, I will just say, it will be helpful if it was part of it. As an agency, I think we need to be going there.We have made plenty of mistakes in the past with not getting the land use right. I'm not supportive insaying we are going to continue to put our head in the sand without the land use implications and what they are per our investment.7:07 PMThank you. next council member peralez?Thank you, chair. based on what debra was saying in regards to this potential analysis and the land use not being explicit but it could potentially happen anyway and I appreciate your kind of poking around that,chair. But I am happy to make it explicit. So, and if the maker of the motion is not willing to do that, I will make a substitute motion that just adds that explicit language.I will second it.We have a substitute motion and we have to vote on the substitute motion first. I'm going to take comments on the substitute otion now. I have mayor liccardo?7:08 PMI'm going to check your hand.I'm done, thank you.Council member carrasco.I appreciate the conversation. Thank you, mayor, for bringing this up. And I really appreciate council member or director peralez for making the substitute motion. That's why I was trying to raise my hand because I was trying to make my way through the labyrinth of these great points that everyone is making.We are truly in a crisis that doesn't belong to one person but to an entire region. I think we can continue to stick our head in the sand all we want, but it's coming our way and eventually it's going to have a domino effect on every city in the entire county in the entire region. I have seen ome really horrific comments coming from our neighboring cities about building greater density in their own backyard and not wanting to do so and seeing it as a responsibility of san jose. I have had to refrain from making comments because to say it's not appropriate, it's an understated and irresponsible and reckless. It's really I think a shortsided understanding of the very grave situation that we are all facing, and I have to tell you that, the pandemic has been a very interesting to say the least experience. I think those who continue to shelter in place and continue to be lucky enough to draw down a check and automatic payment haven't quite felt the pain of apandemic. Those of us who are representing districts and families who are truly feeling the pain of thepandemic, understand that we have not yet felt the depth as to where we are going to fall into when we start etting into post covid-19. I think the recovery stage is ctually going to be more painful than what eare experiencing right now trying to figure out how we are going to get people back to work or back to shool. I think it's going to be more painful than what we are experiencing now. And housing is going to riseright up to the top. People who were doing well, maybe they weren't thriving the way that we envision what that means in silicon valley ecause it's one of the most expensive areas in I dare say all of california, but they were surviving and they were self sufficient and these are going to be the new phases of individuals where they are going to need our support and suddenly will find themselves in a situation they had never imagined. We are going to have to buckle down and really ake a look at how we are going to look at our goals and those numbers that some of us, for whatever reasons have not met them in the past and didn't move quick enough. I think those numbers are going to be very significant in the future and are going to be very impactful. So, thank you, director peralez for making the substitute motion. I'm going to be supporting it. The last thing I want to mention, I know there has been some amount of discussionregarding the light rail extension to eastridge and of course you all know where I stand on that. Director chavez mentioned the 450 acres on the east side of san jose that we have yet to see how we are going to move forward on it and there is a study that's been approved and will be underway. But I want to add the following. That that light rail extension is going through one of the most densely populated areas in the county, not just san jose, in the entire county. And down alum rock, I have almost 2,000 units that have been approved. We have not broken ground, I will be honest about that, but we are breaking ground and waiting to see how that densepifyiedensifies. Alum rock corridor and as we look at how we are building on san jose. East side is hot, hot, hot. I'm not necessarily thrilled about it, but I recognize the need and how this is going to be transformative for a lot of our families and how we are going to have to really make sure that we put in place a system that works for families and families from point a to point b. For me thatmeans fueling the underground economy of silicon valley and the engine that people don't like to talk about and this workforce is there through silicon valley and that moves the world. It allows people to keep the lights on and to feed the silicon valley work fork and many people don't talk about that. But that's my district. So, I know that we need to make sure that we put those systems in place. So, any way, thank youvery much. I will be supporting the substitute motion.7:14 PMThank you. council member rob, glen, jeannie and I almost called on elaine.Thank you, chair. I don't want to get too far into the light rail discussion, but I think they are actually making the argument because staff's report on the light rail said it's going to take years before it meets our minimum standards but I just got all kinds of reasons for that. I would say let us to more analysis beyond the traditional staff analysis to see f it will be viable because you are saying on the east side, let us investigate it on the west side. From the silicon valley leadership group, there is data that says 600 daily ridership before covid on private shuttles and 99% came out of san jose which is south of where the group was. That says to me if there is that much demand privately, there has to be demand on a public servicealso that could be possible. We just need to expand the scope of our analysis. The concern for addingexplicitly the land use environment, will this bog down this study. We have been working on this for a while and the members of the pib want to be moving forward and want to have the results of the next analysisthis century. Perhaps we can ask debra again to comment on if we were to add explicitly, how much extra time does this do to the next step. Through the chair, of course.7:16 PMI do not have a definitive answer to that and we also have to look at how we would be consistent with the measure b requirements, but we can do something that is high level that would inform this city's process and get into more detail if that was needed. I don't think this needs to spin into a broad land use analysis that would delay the whole project.7:17 PMOkay, thank you.Thank you.Glen?I'm going to be as short as I can. I'm not comfortable with this conversation. This conversation has gotten this into a city against city and i'm not hearing a lot of regional collaboration as a body. I just want to say that. I also want to say, I represent a city that has a very wide income range diversity. So, i'm uncomfortable with this idea that certain groups or areas are the ones that we only represent and aren't taking everyone into account. On the terms of the cities sing the land use implications of this, I think if a new service was put on this 885, I think the city would look onto their account as this land use is going on.And i'm going to say these are my words, a back ended way of trying to put vta influence over city land use which we've said is not the prerogative right now of vta and I see this as an opening going in that direction. We are taking massive amounts of time for what should have been a very simple discussion.Let's go take and do additional study that isn't by vta form a lot of money. I said I will go back to my very first thing, I have become very uncomfortable with this conversation as we try to work as a regional body together.7:19 PMJeannie?We are not applying all the standards across. The vote is going to be the vote. But the one thing I would like to remind everybody. Prior to all of this, prior to measure b, there was a plan of record, I will refer to it as the plan of record that vta had and they were going to add an additional lane of traffic. We are building a new lane and converting it to hov and two expresslanes, wider roads for more cars. What was asked for is for us to look at another alternative. The thing is where the beauty of the policy advisory board and ittook us a long time to get there, was we went with a rubber tire solution. The infrastructure to build-out what we call a transit lane and that doesn't necessarily mean it's exclusively transit, which is what we are going to find out in this next phase, but the beauty of it, the identical structure to vta to make it o more cars on the 485. I don't know what we are afraid of here. I hope that we can move this to allow us to move through the analysis for every concept on the organization to go over.7:20 PMThank you, chair. I don't want to repeat everything that's been said. I think I understand what memberliccardo is trying to get at and we had a conversation about that in capital committee. But i'm really concerned about where this conversation has taken us and i'm afraid that we are heading down a road where we are saying we are only going to provide transit service to dense areas, and i'm not sure that'swhat we want to really be saying. If it is, we should be very explicit about it and make sure that's the direction we are taking vta. I think what makes our county so great is the unique character of differentcities, and I recognize that a certain density is necessary to make transit the way that we've always thought about transit, to make it work, but if we are not going to be able to get that are we just going to strand communities to get the service that we need. That's the conversation that i'm afraid this one is taking us into. If we want to have that conversation, we should rather than using this as a means of getting to it. I'm not comfortable with where this motion has taken us tonight than focusing on the 85 corridor. I thought we were going to be discussing the catchment basis for the broader lands includingpeople that live in south county that member krars # carrasco is talking about and I want to get back to doing that and aybe that is a conversation to be had maybe one in a different level. I'm back to being okay the moving this forward when you et this going rather than holding this up. Thank you.7:23 PMJohn and then chappie.I think chappie was in front of me.That's fine. chappie, you are up.Thank you, john. I feel like i'm in a unique situation where one i'm on the board of vta and represent the whole region and also represent a portion of west # west valley and an jose. I know originally there was apromise to the west valley cities that if they supported measure b that there would be a solution for the 85 corridor. I remember there was a commitment made to the west valley cities. That was a key element to the west valley cities in order to have measure b even pass. I was involved with the policy advisory board early on and I remember those initial discussions. It was always a vision of creating a pathway to migrate to a better transit option. You might have started out with expresslanes and migrate to another solution but there was always that vision of aggression of advancing to a higher better solution down that corridor.I'm not comfortable with all the hard work that's taken place on the path and we are talking about years ofeffort and input from many elected officials who have been involved with this process. So i'm not comfortable changing directions at the 11th hour which is what this feels like. So, i'm not going to support the original motion, but I also have the expectation that here can be some analysis done and debra says a high level land use analysis. So I would have that expectation that some of that work can be done and that we can get some analysis done in terms of being able to determine the impact of land use on that corridor.7:25 PMThank you, chappie. john?I'm lad I got the last word. but to talk about the aggression that I would like to go to. If you look at the congestion, we have a problem right now. If you read the whole report. Sam, I understand where you are going but we have a problem right now and we need to spend the time and energy to solve it as it is right now, and yes, we are going to review it, but please consider that, there is more than -- we have a problem, let's solve it and then we can look at the other broader pictures. So, i'm ready for a vote.7:26 PMOkay, any other comment? the first vote is on the substitute motion.I do want to make a broad comment. I think the fact that people feel such distress over this is really important for us to acknowledge, and I also want to acknowledge that a number of you who are making an argument that 85 should be studied are not supportive of east light rail. 'm not saying that one group is right or wrong depending on how you vote. My point is only that the high level of scrutiny that we arehaving over how we proceed, I actually don't think is a bad thing. I think it's a bad thing when we are not consistent and that is something we should have a discussion about in terms of, I think rennie said or I can't remember who said that we should be applying the same standard. Well, a number of us are notapplying the same sandard. We are not. Rob, you are the most consistent person and right between these issues from the beginning. The reason is I think we have some eal and meaningful tensions. Larry, you talked about if we are only putting transit in dense areas, we ought to have that conversation and I think we are having that conversation and not just here but given the budget crisis and like jeannie, who is fighting to make sure we have resources in the county through caltrain and since I have been on the board. My point here is this. . I think we are having a real honest debate and not because we are trying tohold back the project, but we can't figure ut a way to make this transit work. And you said about the region, I don't think is a bad way. And every city does a proposal, our staff, vta, write-up a proposal about how to make it more accessible, more walkable and more bikable. Sometimes the cities respond to it and sometimes they don't and these are all things that have to change is my point. I don't think it's dramatic to ask for a high level land use assessment. I don't think that encroaches on any city. I think it's good policy.Now, here is what my concern is. My concern is that it is good policy and I think it ought to be discussed in committee to discuss what the parameters are in discussing these kinds of issues. Honestly, I would havevoted for this tonight, but it's not my intent to distress or to look like this is a city county, small city bank.It in't. It's a let's dig in and figure out how to solve this problem thing. So i'm not going to support thesubstitute motion, but I want you to know that I want to think with all of you about how to have these discussions through committee about how we marry more disciplined work around land use and more investments in transit. I think we ought to go back and look at the tapes and we need to think about how we marry this. I'm going to ask for a roll call vote on the substitution motion and we'll see where we go from there.7:30 PMMadam chair, just to be sure I got it right.I'm going to ask for a clarification on that motion.7:31 PMThank you, chair. i'm happy to and I would agree with your statements that you just made. I don't think it's as dramatic. And I do think this likely right high level of analysis could have been done nyway but justmaking it explicit and the policy. So it's accepting the staff's recommendation and only including a high level analysis at whether land use changes along the corridor would be likely to make ransit more viable.And thank you, raul, for being so clear. Mayor liccardo, you are still seconding that motion, correct?Yes, thank you.I'm going to ask for a roll call vote on the substitute motion.7:32 PMCarr? no, carrasco, yes. diep, aye. Diep is yes. Ellenberg? no.Jones? no.Liccardo? yes.Mcallister? no.Nu?ez? I will come back to you.Peralez? aye. yes.Rennie?No.Board member nu?ez?I don't think he's on.He was on earlier. I will come back.Yeah, he was. thank you.7:33 PMHendricks? no on this one.Chavez? no.I will come back again to board member nu? Ez? Okay, I will mark him as absent. The vote failed with 7 nos and 4 yeses and one absent. The otion fails.We go back to the main motion. And john, do you want to make any changes to your main motion or good as leave it as staff report?Leave it as, please.I think your seconder was rob, is that right?Yes, madam cair.Thank you. we have a motion and second.All right. this is for the main motion.Carr? yes.Carrasco, yes.Diep? aye.Ellenberg?Yes.7:34 PMJones, aye.Liccardo, aye.Mcallister? yes.Nu?ez? I will come back to you.Peralez? aye.Rennie, aye.Hendricks? yes.Chavez?Yes.Board member nu?ez? the motion passes.Thank you.Thank you, everyone. I will ask. If it's okay with my colleagues, I would like to work with the vice-chair and staff to figure out a framework with the issues we wrestled with, if that's okay with everybody. All right. We are moving on to item 7. 1. I'm glad I took that quick item. 7. Regular agenda silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update.7:35 PMMadam chair, i'm very happy to say that we don't have anymore construction left and the commitment is yOctober 31st. We have turned all the documentation to bart. We continue the reduction as I told you before we are going to fully mobilize by the end of this year. There are no changes. The project continues to have net savings of $45 million. Since this report, we closed one contract and we did that. Theberryessa contract has been closed. All contract staff were able to close and they will be closed out except the issue we have with c 700 contract. Madam chair, I would like to go to page 6 and will go very briefly on phase 2. There were two requirements left from the vta that we have to complete for us to meet theobligation. I'm pleased to tell you there is one environment, the estimates for the fta requirement and should be complete. -- the other one, you will hear about in a few minutes. It was the deal with google. We continue for the month of september. Fta requested a peer review. They were from transit where they do this everyday for a living. L. A. Metro, san francisco mta and silicon valley clean water district. The virginia dot and design builders of america. We spent three days together. With us, with bart and fta. Hey examined everything, our program, the way we contract the plan and the job. They gave us comments on practically every item in front of them. Program organizations and structure, contracts scope, the deliverymethods for commercial and technical, phase and integration management and even some insurance requirements to have in place.7:38 PMYou May have seen by now that a project of perspectives, the project brochure. We put it out to the wall for the contractors to be well aware of the project because as we discussed before, we are very motivated to increase the competition as much as we can. Elaine, next page. You are familiar with the framework schedule and i'm pleased to tell you the contracting from the bart phase 2 has started. Object September 16th, we put out a request for industry feedback from the time of the contract and contract work andOctober 9th, we are going to put out the similar one for the systems contract. In november, we are going to start the one. One of the recommendations from the fta and others were spend a lot of time talking to the contractor, have one and hear what they have to say about the program. This is my presentation.7:40 PMThank you very much. before we go to questions, i'm going to the public for public comment.Roland, followed by blair. roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you.One minute, phase one, nothing has changed, they are still 1 billion over budget and carrying 50 passengers a day. Onto the -- no. 1 that has been environmentally cleared since 2007 craver /- crorecontrary to what staff told you. No. 2, no. 3, with regard to keeping this board abreast of how much his is going to cost which is $7 billion. And this slide is not there. Mr. Tacis did not present it to you. Actually I got it from bob, thank you.7:41 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, thank you for this item. I hope that --[ no audio ]I'm back.7:42 PM[ no audio ]Hi, everybody. can we start over again? okay. To start over again, I hope you will be considering the downtown station to have really earthquake safety be top priority, and that's how you can design a station that's to be functional. I know that having stations on both sides of the streets can really help withpedestrian traffic and afety issues in that way. And I really like the idea of bringing the bart down st. Johns instead of santa clara. It being bike -- by the pedestrian parkway that would be a lot prettier. There are a lot of areas near the center to the bart station and that has been available for a while. Just I don't know how much it's being considered.7:43 PMThank you. i'm going to go to my board right now.Thank you, I have worked in the tech industry and one of those things was during a project was to brainstorm and look for ways to modify the process as we went through. You weren't here yet but yourpredecessor assured me that was going to be part of the process when you finished the project and looks like we are finished with phase 1. But contii didn't see any debriefing about the phase.7:44 PMSo what we reiterated to the board was during the project we were going to do a lessons learned and that lessons learned was once we concluded some of the litigation issues because the lessons learned was going to highlight some areas that were sensitive to litigation that we are currently in with the contractor. But yes, it's our intent as well as to have the attorney general do a full audit.Thank yu. that makes a lot of sense and I wanted to make sure it didn't get forgotten.7:45 PMThank you for that.I have no other comments on this item. I'm now going to item 7. 5 and then back to 7. 2.Madam chair, if I May before ron speaks on 7. 5, I just wanted to hank evelyn, tran and og and the whole team that worked on this and others, because it's big. As you all May know, we opted to move from thetraditional whole funding grant agreement trajectory and when after the expedited project delivery program pilot program and one of the corner stones of that application is the requirement that the project be supported through a public private partnership, and with support of the partnership, we have come up with a very innovative way of demonstrating the value captured through this partnership with google and the development that they are oing to be pursuing. So this agreement is historic for us and I shared it with the transit as administration so they can tell us whether or not this was conformed with the framework that they had intended in partnership and we were told that it did. With that, I will turn it to ron.7:46 PMThank you, nuria, the item is to enter into an agreement with google 7. 5. Action item - authorize thegeneral manager to enter into a public-private partnership agreement (p3 agreement) and execute alldocuments necessary to effect a p3 agreement with google llc for vta's bart station area at west santa clara and cahill streets (diridon bart station). To meet the notice of requirements for the project funding that will enable us to receive full funding grant agreements. For a contractual agreement between vta and the partners. To provide some context, the result of this agreement, really goes back to discussions we have been having with google since late 2018. I think it's important to recognize that when google showed up that it wanted to create a major mixed use development project basically surrounding the diridon bartstation that provided a link to us with transit transportation for the ridership when that transit opens and that is a unique opportunity that we have here. In our discussions with google, we realized that by working together because f the scale and vision of both of our projects, we can actually enhance each other's projects and conversely, if we fail to coordinate, that we would affect each other's projects in materials of cost, scales and outcomes. So that realization that we worked to create a better outcome has led us to anon-binding non-binding memorandum of understanding to frame those discussions and this was what has been in discussions for a while and the discussions and ideas we developed subsequent to future agreements were going to be satisfactory. When the epd notice of funding opportunities came out, there was a shift by vta that aid we needed a contractual agreement. Within the space of a few weeks reallyinvested in this effort to brmake the content and include that in the agreement to allow us to receive this funding. With that, will it e just briefly highlight the three main elements of the agreement. I'msummarizing a longer discussion in the board memo. The first element is that google would include air rights empowerment for the application and the city of san jose. Those air rights would allow two high rise potential towers with up to units. The question of who - develops those, this is a separate matter, this is about the entitlements to making it happen. And the lots to the google lots as well as access improvementsto make at a below market cost basis. The third element is vta's ability to use via a lease, a large warehouse building to provide indoor temporary construction replacement parking during the construction period again at a below market cost. And in this development to create this lease down montgomery street to the south. This is omething that occurred earlier in the year where vta authorized the public notice to the land ct and we submitted one submittal and that was from google llc. . I want to emphasize that this is in conjunction with the bart segment and of course the entitlements are one portion to that agreement to google. This agreement results in google absorbing a range of risk and realizing significant benefits for this project and satisfying us in the complexity and time and saving much more expensive ways with public parking. This value with vta is up to $75 million for the bart project. Finally, this is not in this agreement and would need to be brought back for a future date. This agreement would brick bring -- substantial benefit to the bart project and would start service in 2030. Before you is the agreement tonight into thisagreement agreement. I'm happy to answer any questions.7:52 PMI'm going to the public and then my colleagues for questions. Roland? You May begin speaking when ready.Public speaker: thank you. I asked staff if the board had approved the $1. 2 billion increase including the measure a fund and the response was to have them but however you would be approving it once theapplication is approved. With regards to the nofo, it's $100 million already being approved, nothing more, nothing less. I would ask that you defer the item and satisfy the fta, no. 3, address google and bob in design and integrate station at diridon and no. 4 including vta requirements in the downtown west development agreement.7:54 PMGoing forward, we did receive public comment from roland as well.Blair, you May again speaking.Public speaker: thank you, I guess I looked a little bit silly talking about the srp center as the bart station.I just tried to put it simply out there and you seem to be set on and you shared it just now. I heard that you are going to turn the water department building into a huge high rise. Did I hear that correctly? I don'tknow if that's comfortable with people, but nonetheless it's what you are saying and so we can have choices to consider. Thank you for this item today. And as a date to start to work towards real funding, that gives a time frame. So thank you, and good luck to all of us to work with these issues with diridon.7:55 PMNext, alex. public speaker: hi, this is alex shore. Thanks, ron, for our work on this. Just generally speaking, air rights are such a great part of transient oriented development. So many places in the world have this kind of model, and I think it has tremendous potential and it's incredibly important for us here in silicon valley. It has already started its evaluation on the google project and will be evaluating it on October 14th.One of the things that I sort of wonder about for vta is the land closest to the future transit center. Any of that land that might be owned by the vta, what does that use end up becoming? I hope that vta land can be focused on especially when it's close to the station of public facing use like a plaza or a park so that it continues to be more towards civic uses.7:56 PMTessa, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: okay, when the bart, we need to focus onreducing the bart's impact. So yes, diridon station is a good station. We need that to be the essential station of the bart, but we need to reduce our bart investment by at least half just like we have to do with our fossil fuels? general. Actually the fossil fuels need to stay in the ground and we need to be cutting our losses and making very adult decisions about what we are going to do as e go forward and one of those is not to have in santa clara a cleaning station. That's the worse use of what's happening in santa clara. That should be housing it. We have a maintenance yard in hayward that we spent a lot of state dollars on. That should be our maintenance yard. We do not need the santa clara station. It is redundant and shouldn't bespending millions of dollars and we are at a climate emergency and this is the time to realign measure b.7:57 PMThank you and that is all of our public comment. I'm going to see if there are any questions from my colleagues?7:58 PMI see none from my colleagues. Now to colleagues in action.Are you ready for a motion?I am.I move 7. 5. Action item - authorize the general manager to enter into a public-private partnership agreement (p3 agreement) and execute all documents necessary to effect a p3 agreement with google llcfor vta's bart station area at west santa clara and cahill streets (diridon bart station).Mayor liccardo?I want to first say thanks to google. I know it's not great to say thanks to big companies, but to say what this project means to the entire region. Coming down here, google didn't ask for tax cuts or waiver on fees, instead committed t. As we go to vta and work on this largest project if our region and investthousands of affordable housing units that they will be building without any typical obligation to building housing and a quarter of them will be affordable and they will be investing millions of dollars in benefits.And that's without requesting anything in return other than simply fair consideration of their project. So i'm very grateful to see this all moving forward. I appreciate vta's great work. Thank you.7:59 PMThank you, mayor. and I have no other comments. With that, i'm going to request a roll call vote.8:00 PMClerk: carr? yes,Carrasco? yes.Diep? yes.Jones? aye.Liccardo? aye.Mcallister? I will come back to you.Nu?ez?Peralez? aye.Rennie? aye.Hendricks? aye.Chavez?Yes.Nu?ez? I will mark him absent. The motion is passed.Thank you very much.We are going to to item 7.2. # 7. 2. Action item - approve the proposed criteria and scoring to be used in evaluating and prioritizing projects for the five (5) year element of the inaugural vta strategic capital investment plan under development.8:01 PMThe capital review discussed this in a meeting and this will be using the vta's investment capital plan and i'm oing to ask steve to give a very quick presentation about this. I will just say to my colleagues, I hope you vote and support this. This is a very good thing for us to do.Thank you, vice-chair, hendricks. The strategic capital investment program or skip. The real purpose of it is to enhance the board's understanding of the program and capital decisions, operating cost, implications and potential trade off of each decision. You are also trying to better reflect the board's priority that will beaccomplished by adopting the priorities presented to you. The real key are the bottom two bullets. We are trying to increase board input level during the capital process and you will have many bites of the these plans. And investing on- so what is the skip? A comprehensive 20 year plan. The first five years is fullyconstrained and prioritized in years 1-5. And years 6-20, unconstrained not prioritized. Tam, plan process is foundational element. First two years inform capital element of bienniu biennium # budget. Renewed every two years as leading edge of biennial --8:03 PMBoard involvement in grated process. The board itself determines and adopts the priorities as the basis of this item. It's a two phased approach. He first one is to call the project irrespective of funding or cost, basically how they built vta's delivery of goals and second the cost and funding projections. The boardadopts the scip primarily the cap 5 every two years. This is a visual representation of the work flow. We are at stage 4. In august, the cc recommended the priorities and made recommendations to the board.And then we go on if the board approves it, the project will be ranked accordingly and sent to the cpc for recommend and to the board for approval on the biannual budget. And this once alliance, it will go into the vta categories and will include highways. With that, I will go to the allocation and she'll walk you through the process.8:05 PMSo what we have before you are the criteria for the last two cycles. These are the criterias that we are proposing. Most is to cover more than transit for vta. This slide and the next slide after this really have the meat for this criteria. Rather than go through each one by one, I will say we did three things with them.First, again broaden them to be more multimodal. Second, add elements to address equity in its various forms, and third, adjust the scoring so it is in whole numbers and multiples of five. I think the one thing I will say about the weights is a lot of thought went into them and collectively we've reached where if we try to emphasize something more, we wound up deemphasizing something we felt should not bedeemphasized. Again some more detailed criteria. Now back to steven to wrap up the presentation and getto your questions.8:07 PMThis is just a summary and I talked earlier about having a constrained part where funding is not a consideration. That's stage 1. Stage 2 is where we factor in the funding availability. Next slide.In the blue is where we are right now, we are requesting your approval of this capital priorities for the cap 5. If you approve them, they will be used to sort through capital projects. Those will be taken back to the cpc for review and recommendations and then they will go to the board. In March and april, the full package, the first -- vice-chair said inaugural skip will be presented for adoption and will be carved -- off to inform the annual budget. With that, I will close for any questions.8:08 PMThank you. first I will go to our public speakers. Public speaker: tessa, climate activist. Basically, I wanted to give recognition to mayor liccardo and councilwoman carrasco for their recognition of the climate risis that we are in in regards to prioritizing in our capital investments, things moving forward. That's what thisscience says we need to be really at zero emissions now.8:09 PMSo typically what that means, the scientist are saying the suburbs have to be dropped. This is not a livable area and the suburbs have not been that way either. We have to start making decisions that is always looking the climate and going forward can only be sustained. Right now the suburbs --Blair, you May speak when you are ready. Public speaker: exactly what I was asking about earlier. You ar figuring out how to bring your capital projects to be out on the open. This is great. Good luck in your efforts to do this. It's really needed at this time. You know, in your previous item that you were talking about housing issues and the rail on the west side on the 85, you know, good luck in how you can work this out. I felt council person peralez being from san jose, he was trying to ask about the future of housing and land use next to transit. And the vta seems to have a bit of timidity about this subject and I respectyou for that, but the vta also has an important cause and purpose in the future of housing and member peralez to address that. I wish you the best of luck in that. E all want project 85 to succeed.8:11 PMI'm going to the board and I will start with Mr. Hendricks.Are you ready for a motion?I am.I move we 7. 2. Action item - approve the proposed criteria and scoring to be used in evaluating and prioritizing projects for the five (5) year element of the inaugural vta strategic capital investment plan under development.This is more than what the board needs.I would like to comment on this. This is waiting on the reserve for the transit that basically approves the transit system. If you are thinking too much about maintaining your current system, you won't move on nto something better and more cost-effective. When I first looked at this, I was also worried that we would be teen -- taking a score off the increased mobility and that was about the same amount and many of those were overlap to support or dot policies and streets and let-- land use and which also address ourmobility.8:12 PMThank you. I have no other comments from my colleagues. I would like to thank staff also and request a roll call vote.Clerk: carr? yes.Carrasco?Yes.Diep? aye.Ellenberg?8:13 PMEs.Jones? aye.Liccardo?Aye.O'neill?Yes.Thank you.Nu?ez?Peralez? aye.Rennie? aye.Chavez?Aye.Motion passes. ofWe are going to move to item 7. 3. Authorize the board chairperson to execute, resolutions as to each of the vta/atu pension plan coverage group and the calpers pension plan coverage group (as defined herein) substantially in the following form: a) requesting authorization from the state social security administrator to conduct a majority vote election for social security coverage (election); b) establishing the effectivedate(s) of social security coverage; c) stating that no optional exclusions from social security coverage are to be requested; d) naming elaine baltao, board secretary, as the local election officer who will conduct the election on behalf of vta; and e) specifying whether the plan of combination of social security and the respective pension plan(s) will be modified or unmodified.8:14 PMBack in negotiation, this agreement should have been made with the social security association. Now we will get the necessary paperwork n place to maintain status quo and maintain benefits. To do so, vta needs to hold an election for two of our pension plans for the majority of the employees vote yes to participate in social security and for vta to enter into the section 218 agreement. This would preserve and protect social security for all past, 3 current and future vta employees. This process is seen by the state social securityadministrator. As a first step, the state social security administrator required that resolutions be adopted by this station from them to hold the election. Vta staff is proposing to hold the election in March of 2021. You May recall that this board created a subcommittee consisting of me, glen, and howard to staff and the union on this issue. Last onth the subcommittee articipated in five town hall meetings with the union leadership, current employees and retirees and informing them on the issue and showing the plan to correct them and any questions they have. Social security administrators participated in these meetingsand union leadership is extremely supportive in this effort and committed to make sure the employees are informed and they do in fact vote. Up to the next few months and leading up to the March election, wehope to hold sessions and engage our employees. At this time, I would like to see if any of our colleagues who are part of the labor movement want to say a few words and I would like to thank them. I think from seiu tammy is with us.8:16 PMYes, madam chair.Hello? hi. thank you. good evening, everybody, my name is tammy denode a, from region one vice-president and also a 25 year vta employee. I just wanted to thank our board chair cindy chavez of informing us of this situation with this agreement and also her effort to create a subcommittee that we've all been working on so hard, and I also want to thank our board members, glen hendricks and howard miller for your dedication and all of your efforts to help the vta employees and vta retirees. It's a unique situation that you will of us are learning as we go and I want to make sure we express that we are all dedicated to this cause because it allows the vta employees and retirees on what they retired as and nownas what they are as they retired. That helps us move in the right direction and be part of this team. Thank you very much.8:18 PMThank you, tammy. with atu, is jp with us?Yes, madam chair, he is.Yes, good evening everybody and thank you for all the work that you guys have done to guarantee our social security. I'm john, vice-president of the atu 65. Atu 65 urges the vta board of directors to passagenda item 7. 3. This resolution will begin the process to get this section 18 agreement passed to guarantee social security for benefits for all past, present and future atu members. The intent has always been there for vta members to be part of social security and vta must fulfill that process for all current andretired employees.8:19 PMThank you.Thank you for your work as well. Steve?Thank you, cindy. good evening, everyone, my name is steve -- I would like to thank you for collaborating on this section # social security issue and this process has been inclusive and transparent to all vta employees. We ask the board to approve the resolution to secure section 218 agreements so all retired and current and future vta employees can retain their full social security benefits and are not impacted with any reduction of benefits and retirement. I would like to thank all of you in advance for your support on this resolution to secure this section 218 and to allow us to have the benefits that we were all aware of.Thank you.8:20 PMThank you very much. now stanley?Good evening, madam chair and ladies and gentlemen of the board, my name is stanley. I want to thank cindy chavez for her leadership and also glen hendricks and Mr. Miller. I want to thank vta for it'snegotiation. This has been a cooperation at its core and very smooth process and we are proud to be partnering with vta management. As john and steven have said and I could not have said it any better.This is to solidify that employees already knew and thought that they had going forward. It's a pleasureworking with this team on this item. Thank you for your time. And we urge you to vote yes on this. Thank you and have a great evening. Good night.8:21 PMThank you. I want to say to my colleagues the leadership from the unions have been tremendous because not only did they help s shape the five meetings, but they did additional meetings with their unions to prepare them before the meeting, have the meetings with us and continue to answer questions after our meeting. So really to the union leadership they have been tremendous partners and I want to acknowledge to our staff, they have been amazing. Everybody is really working hard and it's fun to all be working, it would be better if we weren't working on this to be frank with, but since we have been stuck together, it's been really fabulous and thank you, nuria, your team has been great. And given this really remendousstrong artnership and honestly, glen and howard have been amazing but this really strong partnership, i'm really feeling we are going to do well in these elections. There is a lot we have to do, but the first steptonight is adopting these resolutions. So what I would like to do is I want to take public comment and then I will go to the board for action comments and questions.8:22 PMTessa? public speaker: thank yu, I haven't always gotten my time in, so please fix that. I'm glad you are talking about benefits for our workers and what I wanted to bring your attention to is the very much important that the workers stay home because i'm noticing that you are all coming back to work andparties and celebrations. We need to stay home and I appreciate what chair chavez said that we need to do that through the whole county and our whole world is for everyone to stay home and really look at that priority and look at that lens and everybody should stay home. Anybody in the offices should stay ome except for the bus drivers, of course. I wanted to say how important that is to health.8:23 PMThank you very much. I want to let the board know that we did receive public comment from shelly all bright and that will be found in the package on the website.8:24 PMBlair? public speaker: hi, about a month 1/2 ago, I started to look into funding for vta and how they can help themselves in this time, and I read over the atu policy ideas in this time of covid and I found it reallyinteresting and helpful. Nd also was the feeling that, it wasn't being very well received within vta, and i'm hoping, a month 1/2 later now it is being more respected. I think they have some interesting ideas in this time of covid that I hope that you can look over and that I have been really impressed with. Thanks for their work and thank you that you are making good agreements together at this time. Thank you.8:25 PMThank you. i'm going to turn to glen.Are you ready for a motion?I am.I move that we adopt 7. 3. Action item - adopt, and authorize the board chairperson to execute, resolutions as to each of the vta/atu pension plan coverage group and the calpers pension plan coverage group (as defined herein) substantially in the following form: a through e.Any discussion?I want to say a few words. I want to say thank you to this committee. We sat down and saved hundreds of meetings. We have links to the videos of the meetings we've had with the employees so you can really geta sense of the depth and what's gone on with this. If this 218 agreement. It doesn't create new benefits or take any away. This is to go ahead and document and preserve what everyone believes is status quo. I want to thank the partners. They have been fantastic to work with. The partnership nd collaboration. Ithink steve mentioned collaboration. Stanley mentioned we don't have friction. It's really been a very unique experience having the union leadership, the board members, and members of vta staff all working together and that we really all speak in the same language and this partnership is really good. I think there is a lot more work to go. The actual vote doesn't happen until next year by employees, but I think we have started off on a great point of getting this communication and education of getting the employees thebenefits hey need to have. Please vote yes on this.8:27 PMBy the way, our staff was brilliant. I think it was erika who brought ack sandra way man. I don't know if you know her, and I don't know if she's listening but we are excited to have her back.May I request a roll call vote.Carr?Yes.Carrasco? yes.Diep? aye.Ellenberg? yes.Jones? aye.O'neill? yes.Peralez, aye.Rennie?Yes.Hendricks? enthusiastically yes.8:28 PMChavez?Yes.Thank you.7. 4. Action item - authorize the general manager to enter into a series of 90-day extensions, up to a totalpotential extension term of one year, to the exclusive negotiations agreement (ena) between vta, the city of santa clara (city), and republic metropolitan (developer) for the santa clara caltrain station park and ridelot transit-oriented development project (project). During the first 90-day ena extension period, republicmetropolitan must satisfactorily address identified project risks to vta and the city in order to receive a subsequent 90-day ena extension(s).Our director of real estate and transient oriented development will provide the report.Thank you, madam chair. this shows the location of the proposed todd project is currently the parking lot for the santa clara county station. With direct access to the tunnel bart station. The process of the work is to create a project that would involve two separate components. On a larger phase of santa clara parcels and the smaller parcel that vta owns would be an affordable housing development. What we have been doing with this negotiation agreement between vta and the city reflecting the commitment of this project.In December 2017, the city followed a decision tonight into an agreement and that led to a six month extension. In august 2019, the vta board authorized a second extension and we are now 2. 5 years of thisnegotiation. Back in june, in closed session, the vta board provided direction to staff on what would be vta's minimum to consider such a project. We continued to negotiate with the developer and did not reachagreement on those terms by the expiration with vta on august 5th. However, the subsequent submitted a proposal and we reviewed this in closed session and it is our opinion that vta has met the terms. However, santa clara city council has yet to review this. There do remains other project risks that is not at the resultof the satisfaction of vta and the city and must be addressed in order for a project to occur. These are discussed in more length in the board memo and the first risk is the litigation risk. While this is not normally discussed in open session, this is an issue primarily involving the city of santa clara and provided a memorandum to city council that said based upon a court ruling in the case that the city's process to enter into a source was not supportable and this could not allow an agreement to ensue. The developer has not been ble to provide the legal analysis to lead the attorney to change his opinion. If we are p you would into future litigation, we have the significant risk of defense cost and damages. The city has asked the developer to provide an indemnification against defense causing damages however the developer has some time to do this and from the vta perspective, we have this ability for this perspective. Into you -- the second issue has to do with water wells and that will have to be relocated for the project. The city has to evaluate alternate locations and tend to those locations and the roses for agreement to work. They havenot reached this agreement. The third has to do ith caltrain replacement of parking during construction period. To provide a little bit of context on this, vta is working closely with caltrain staff throughout this process. Caltrain's approach as what vta does is what is the new ridership and the fair box net revenue that would result and on a net basis if that reduction, results in more revenues, that would only require 95 parking spaces and that was agreed to by the developer. However, caltrain has said we need two in that area for buses. The developer has offered to use 100 spaces and use reasonable efforts to identify a site for the additional parking. From vta's perspective in the city, the standard is not commercially reasonable and they need to provide the spaces. Finally, sharing why we have this ninety day extension. Ourexperience throughout the year is that short deadlines is what focused this developer on the issue and trying to dvance projects. We are asking for a series of short-term extensions to keep us focused on resolving these issues and within if first 90 days, these three significant issues to be resolved to move onwith planning considerations nd planning approvals that need to occur for are that project. That's my summary and i'm happy to answer questions.8:34 PMThank you very much. i'm going to public speakers and back to the board for discussion and action.I'm going to remind folks if you spoke earlier on this item, please don't do that again, but if you haven't spoken on this item, please feel free to join us.Thank you. I just want to note for the record that we received written comments from silicon valley leadership group. You can find it on your packet on the website. Tessa, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you. Yes, basically, you know, we need to stop the bart to santa clara. That is an absolute thing that we have to do. And it's connected with the caltrain. I mean caltrain right now islooking for money to support itself from the community. And one of the tragedies that could happen when we have both bart and caltrain going to santa clara, you know, they both could not thrive. The thing is wedon't need the bart to santa clara. The whole message of measure b was ring of the bay. We don't have to go double time around the bay. The thing is we stop at dridon, you transfer to caltrain to get to santa clara. The very few people that would be going to santa clara and is that should be it and we have to make adult decisions and we have to really reduce our fossil fuel to zero.8:36 PMAlex followed by roland followed by blair. Public speaker: alex shore again, catalyze sv. Our mission is to help envision and create sustainable equitable and vibrant place for people in silicon valley. One of the ways we do that is to advocate projects like google and the other is to help the community engagement process to ake it more inclusive and more collaborative. So one of the things we have seen in following this project that it also potential for vta and the city 3 process, there continues to be opposition to the development and we'd like to see those folks engaged even further. Council member teresa o'neill has talked about the importance of community engagement on this process and others and we stand continued to be ready to assist santa clara and vta if we can be engaged in helping the developer create the best possible project possible. I hope vta will consider that in its conversations with the city.8:37 PMRland, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thanks again. Really great project. With thecity's view, it would be great to wait for the public to comment, I appreciate it. . With regard to this point, caltrain has to build 750 feet of track on the east side to make it what it took away from san francisco. If we build another platform there from the capital crridor, we can now sell the entire new whole yard and use the revenue to basically tart generating some income for bart phase 2. With regard to cougarsoperation with caltrain, I wish they had that cooperation when the result with diridon. Thank you.8:38 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, as I tried to offer it earlier, I May not fully understand the algebra and how the vta plans its housing developments for the area and what exactly you eed to be working on at this time, but thank you for these efforts. It sounds interesting. The words of alex shore, sounded really interesting. How does important part in this process. You know, it's all been myfeeling that mixed income ideas and it's really important to housing and I don't know what you are going o do with santa clara development, but overall, I hope those ideals that I have mentioned is what the vta can go forward with. As we are starting to go forward with before covid-19. Thank you.8:39 PMThank you, i'm going back to the board for comments and discussion. I'm going to to start with member carr?A quick question. ron, has the city of santa clara extended the ena?The city of santa clara staff has entered into a one year extension and this will have to go back to city council.8:40 PMMadam chair, i'm ready to make a motion.Okay.I move approval of staff's recommendation.We have a motion and second.Any other discussion on the motion?Council member hendricks: I want to be on the record that i'm expecting the parties involved in this to do things correctly, but i'm looking for efficiency and speed that, I understand, you know, there May be a need for these multiple 90 days things, but I want to be able to hear back from staff about what is going on. I don't want to be shortcut but effective use and speed with getting it done right is important. I wanted to be sure that was said. Thank you.Thank you and I want to reinforce that. I think that's right. We want this to come back with a little bow on it at some point sooner rather than later. We have a motion and second. Anymore discussion on themotion? this is for item 7. 4. I would request a roll call vote.8:42 PMClerk: [roll call] is #Council member hendricks: hendricks?I vote yes but I have a question. I see voting o'neill and mcallister. That is mixing city groups.I'm sorry, my bad.Chavez?Yes.Motion passed.Can I register recusal? this is liccardo. Thank you.Okay.May I call on alternative member kniss to vote on Mr. Mcallister?She's not responding.Okay. motion passes.8:43 PMThank you for that. we are now turn to item no. 9. General manager report.Thank you to all of you. this is a report on the policy that became effective today and provides for payments for small business enterprise after 15 days after this is fully approved by the vta because of the 15 day timeline. This practice is really going to accelerate the certified sbe's getting their money and we want to support them because they are supporting contractors as subcontractors. I believe that we are the first transit agency in the nation to adopt this net 15. I want to thank our chief administrative officer and our chief procurement officer john white for coming up with this novelty. Keep with this theme, the board approved the heroes act now the whole action is pending on the senate side. I hope they take it up but notsure with all the priorities on their list. There are so many nations in dire needs of access to these funds.With that, I will go to the agenda item before you. I want to start with the healthy transit plan that the bay area transit agencies belong to. Last month I brought it to you for approval. And you approved it. It is a plan that shows all the steps that we are taking to ensure their safety and that dashboard is now online and includes the information for face coverings for customers and employees and vehicle capacity for safe distancing and contact tracing for employee exposure. The ftc will follow with a report with the information.8:45 PMNext item I want to share with you is I had the opportunity to nterview the deputy administrative of federaltransit administrator as part of the webinar with the american public transportation association. This is a great opportunity to see how ta 3 worked in providing flexible operations as well as stay on track with our state of good repair. She shared some really significant lessons that she has picked up with conversationsshe's had around the country with how to get transportation systems to work closely with customers and start to uild that confidence back to riding with transit. What she said was really practical at the end of the line when the bus is going out of service for a limited period of time for bus operators to announce that the bus is going out of service and that there is going to be some spot cleaning as a result of having the buses cleanliness on the bus on time, all of these small things that make a big difference with the public. The ther thing I wanted to share of course is the expedited delivery. That program is $225 million in fiscal year 20. And we have $125 million of that. That is a program that is oing to be in the million dollar billion dollar that is just what has been as a placeholder until a first project which is as far as what gets approved on anannual basis that will be much more than that. With that, I would like to every month give you an update on our ridership so we can start tracking the process since the covid, since march. And I have asked bothjay, tireey and juney and to talk about that data and the service we put out to the public. Jay, I will turn it to you and judy.8:48 PMThank you, nuria. manager of service planning. We worked with the operations division to ome up ith a fewslides to give you a picture of ridership. Irst I want to go over some precovid ridership. This slide here shows the weekly ridership data efore and after the ntsb was introduced back in December 28th. The light line this year and the dark line the prior year. This is weekday ridership. You can see the increase was better last year. Our focus in planning operations is what is going on on the bus side because as you remember on the rail side, the ntsbs -- at this point we weren't seeing those returns on the investment.This is really focused on what the bus network was doing. The next slide quantifies that increase that you saw there on that chart. He period preceding the ntsp, as you know we have been in a long-term declineridership and it was a neglect 1. 2% and after the ntsp, the first two months, in January and February of data we increased ridership actually 3. 3%. Which is a positive swing of over 4% which is really very strong results for the network considering that we didn't expect the ridership increase of 10% to 24 months into the project. The next slideshows you just a reminder of the service network here. I bring this up because the ridership increase was almost entirely focused on the frequent red routes here, the 15minute routes and light rail system. That's important because those routes really the function of our future networks because now i'm going to transition in the next slide to talk about covid ridership. I wanted tomake that point because the frequent network is really the foundation of our network going into the future.So don't worry, we are not going to lose all of those positive gains we have already made. This slideshowsthe ridership from 2019 so you can get a sense of the dramatic impact of covid-19 and then slowly trending upwards but ery slight. Also note the seasonal variation in ridership which is very normal for us, high in the spring and high in the fall and we haven't seen that because of the lack of school. And you can see the last decade, and I wanted to show this because t does give you the nature of the ridership declinewe experienced. Also noting he seasonality that is a normal trend for us. The next slideshows the samedata and same time period but in a different way which shows the year over year change. This takes the six months data and shows it as a prior year. That is a different way in seeing in showing the trend that we have been experiencing. Finally in my last slide, I know there has been a lot of members requesting for more detail on root level ridership. I put together this slide. It shows the percentage drop of ridership on all of our routes, prepandemic and post pandemic or during the pandemic. All the routes have decreased inridership and it's the frequent routes that declined less than the covered routes and that's what's taking a hit on the ridership. This is what hits to what I was talking about the frequent corridor being our network and the essential service for a lot of our riders. With that, that completes my report.8:53 PMThank you, jay. jud?The next couple slides here as jay mentioned, we are in an unusual situation. I will be presenting the statistical information on passengers. As such typically occurs when it's full and the stepped up passenger would have to wait for the next scheduled vehicle. Prior to covid, we had this before, but not to the magnitude that we are currently dealing with. In this slide, I would like to talk about how we have more pass ups now. Really with the impacts of covid and the associated safety measures that we have toimplement because of it. So in the next couple items that I have highlighted, when covid impacts were very prevalent in august, vta went to work for the asset of our operators and the riding public, we implemented and installed barriers for our operators which are really intermediate solutions at this point.100% of our vehicles are installed with this permanent solution. But the permanent barriers that e have purchased already and approved by the board, we have by the end of this year, we have 19% of ourvehicles equipped with the barriers and 100% by august 2020. The service impact is that we campaigned and implemented a no mask no ride policy. We also instituted we are voting nd for the safety of our operators and with that no fare collection. Both which were reinstituted. And we have the new transit in plan for January and February but suspended in march. Some routes being reinstated in august. With theinterest in safety and also social guidelines, that has diminished the capacity of our vehicles. All of this changed the way we defined or the very definition of what an overload vehicle is. Because of that, if we could not accommodate in the interest of safety again, another passenger to be loaded, that would result into a passenger. In the past, as part of our operational support, we have stand by vehicles. Primarily these are used if there is a vehicle breakdown or accident and so there is less service disruption.Nowadays, we are utilizing the stand by support vehicles for pass ups if it's warranted and if it is available.So what do the numbers look like?8:56 PMOn the left side of the column is the data for the month of September and the right side is last of september. We entered into a process where they process the on board automated devices. This has given more detailed information as it pertains to the passengers. On the first week of September we were averaging on the weekday about 285 occurrences of these pass ups. Estimated affecting 878 riders on the weekend. That has decreased now compared to the last week of September to the first week. In the first week of September we peaked at an average of 12 3 vehicles available for stand by whereas in the last week of september. We are trying to identify what this means and what time of the day, there is really no clear pattern per say on the day what we are looking at, but what is consistent with the top 3 routes that have contributed to the occurrences have also contributed to the 50% of the occurrences. On the first ofseptember, you have routes nd the last of september, it was at least 50% with routes -- and there is an overlap. You can see they are present in this data that we have seen. So we want to identify where are these locations. In getting the top 10% locations where this is occurring, it actually was represented by seven stops predominantly in the downtown san jose area and during the midday service 9:00 a. M. To3:00 p. M. . No surprise that these seven stop locations are the three routes that I just mentioned. The 23, 66 and 68 particularly for these locations on second street. All three of them are serving new stops. Thislines up the midday service compared to the data that we are seeing on the passenger average load waiting for peaks when we can't add additional passengers. With this data, we hope to include more details and more locations. As we continue to assess the situation, we are making informed decisions in transit services. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.8:59 PMThank you. madam chair, if there are any questions from the public or members.Was going to let you finish your hole report then go to the public and then the board. Give us an update because even though transit has decreased, there has not been a decrease in safety.Thank you. this has been a trying time for patrol. Like everybody else, we are facing a lot of the challenges that you are facing and having to adjust our model of policing. One might think that since ridership is low, that might have a lower demand on police n the city, however we haven't een that and that hasn't been the case. We have additional a demands of patrol with covid precautions and enforcing the health publicorder that has added to our load of work and additionally the precaution in the jails and courts have limited our ability to take people off the system and into jail and that has led to some repeat offenders. In themonth of september, we saw a total of 99 reports. 28 were felony investigations, 54 were misdemeanors and 17 were other categorie categories. I will get to them in a bit. 5 cases were surveillance, and 35 mental health commitments. This is when the board meets once a month, this means the statistics werepulled a couple days ago. When I looked at it today, there are 10 additional reports. The true number is 109 versus the 99 up there. So this bar graph reflects the total number of criminal incidents, transit patrolinvestigations for the past six months as compared to the previous year. As you see beginning with when covid hit we had the shelter in place order, we did see a stoppage of service and a rapid drop off in criminalincidents out there in the arly months. However, you can see this trend line and this trend line has gone up throughout the year to the point where we peaked in august and surpassed despite the low ridership, wesurpassed where we were in 2019. And then you see in September here while it looks like the 2020 data is below adding those 10 more were right about where we were in 2019, if not, I think there is more. What we are seeing and the type of incidents we are seeing is a little bit of a change and a lot of it we know is directly related to the shelter in place. Like we've heard all tonight, 3 the levels of frustration, the levels of stressors in the community right now are at the highest I have ever seen and with added frustration and added stressors, that leads to shorter fusees. So what we are seeing it translates to are incidents withoperators as well as a large percentage increase into the system. And a lot of the vandalisms and operators are directly related trying to adhere to the mask mandates and the social distancingrequirements and this mirrors with the pass ups and the customer service complaints. What happens is some examples of this when a person gets on with no mask and the operator advises p person to wear a mask and the person kicks out a window of the bus. And someone waiting and there is full capacity and the person gets angry at the bus and the person breaks the window. We have had a lot of problems withthe buses because you have to take the bus out of line and there is a cost to get that repaired. And another concerning trend are that other sections that I mentioned in the previous slide and these are mental illness commitments. We have seen a drastic increase in suicidal individuals, people that we've had to do 5150 holds on. Over the last six months, we've made 60 mental health commitments on the estimate. You compare that to last year and that is 43. That's a big difference there. Vandalism, 57%increase. So what have we done to address this? You have heard some of the slides about the back upbuses, that's helped. We've analyzed the data for public health order complaints and we have adjusted our security accordingly. Some measures you will see out there on a system, some measures you won't. When masks were on a short supply, we worked with vta and got a small reserve of masks that the deputies would carry and the goal is to diffuse the situations out there and we had masks to a call for service andnow we were able to get the masks and with the bus frequency, that has helped. We are hopeful with the fact that we took down, we saw a reduction in august in public health order violations and incidentscontinued through september. And another positive news is we've had a very high success rate on the number of arrest with the damages to the bus and operator assaults. Our percentage of arrest is very high.This is a break down of the public health order call. The last slide was specific to criminal incidents that we took reports on and the last one is consistent with health order complaints and traffic control was dispatched to. In May through august, we still haven't done the analysis of september, but in May through august we responded to 337 reports of public violations on the vta system. Again, consistent with what zuni was talking about, the vast majority and in the downtown area. We have seen the most complaints in our downtown area. 77% of the complaints were bus and as opposed to only 23% were train. For whatever reason, almost a quarter of the public health complaints on a thursday. I can't figure out why that was but 25% fell on thursday. We'll continue to monitor this and analyze this and we are getting presentations from vta's customer service and work with zuni and jay to ork out this and the trends. That concludes my report.Thank you very much, captain lara. On a lighter note, we are going to share ood news.Good evening, madam chair. i'm pleased to share with the board and exceptionally refinancing transaction last month. Certainly it was the first of its kind for vta in the sense that we were able to get a second bite at the apple to get additional savings. In 2015, we issued refinancing bonds to refinanced onds in 2007, to get a savings of about $14. 5 million. The same bonds last month, we did another refinancing transaction to get additional savings of about $6. 4 million. So the total savings from both refinancing 115, one last month, realized about $7. 7 million in savings on the transaction back in 2007, that is remarkable, but to jump through some big hurdles. The 2015 bond and tax rate and we could not issue another tax savings bond add we had to issue tax savings bonds. That brought us a few other additional issues which isprecomplex. I want to thank our counsel whose input and guidance on complicated and who was really valuable. I also want to take this opportunity to thank two members of my staff, michael smith and -- who worked on this over the last month to bring this transaction to a successful close because we didn't want tomiss out of the window and realize these savings. This is a $4 million savings on the bonds issued in 2007.That's a short presentation. I will be happy to answer any questions.Thank you, rg. that's another $6 million for the lift column. Do we want to pause here or say that 88. 8 is another report.Nuria, that was a lot. i'm going to give our board a chance to digest what they have just heard. We'll go to the public for comments.I'm come back to glen.Tessa? public speaker: my city council representative is short. You have to communicate the views of all the constituents that hey represent. In addition mayor liccardo never reaches out to his constituents at the meeting and we have the public comment at the end of the meeting. The concern I have is public healthrepresentative from the county is that the sidewalks are not safe to walk on. The capitalist of our members have given the city sidewalks to corporations. So now the citizen cannot walk safely on the sidewalks. We are exposed to these and we can't get away from them unless we get run over. Our sidewalks are not safe.We need vta to save the sidewalks.Roland, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker:Thank you and first of all a high five to the chief. Getting on to business, we just spent the last ten years blowing $3. 5 billion on bart and been operating this service for four months and I would like to know when we are going to see some ridership. On the ntsp, member carr, I hope you will not get up the with me, the 568 is absolutely beautiful. I have been advocating for this for the last two years, but this is absolutely the wrong time to start implementing this service. We need to focus on the 68 and the 66 but that's just san jose. Make sure there is a minimum 15 hour maximum head way and then additional service to make surewe don't leave anybody on the side of the road. It's more critical than the 68 at this time now, thank you.Blair, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you. Sorry for your criminal report on what's happening there. And thank you for your ideas. That can release a lot of tension and help move things along and that can rub off on everyday people and catch the good feeling that we are trying to make things work and good. With that said, thank you for your work on the small business loan programs in someway. There was an item 3088 that partially addressed things and it left it up to people ike the vta to work on stuff. Ask harlan. And a reminder of building google feature, the east side has to be included inconversations.Thank you. i'm going to turn now to member hendricks.Yes, thank you, chair. I just wanted to go ahead and make a comment to nuria, her leadership team, all the vta staff, employees, and I just want to say thank you. I think you guys are doing a fantastic job. As aboard member, I realize that vta's job in what you do is difficult in normal times and we are clearly not in normal times now. The complexity of problems that ovid has and the financial implications that that hasbrought on to you is huge. I want to say thank you and appreciate the work that has been done by all the vta stuff to keep this service running as we can so we are in a position to expand service as the covidsituation changes. I just wanted to say thank you.Thank you, and madam chair, I did not mention that the 2016 measure b placemat is in the packet. That provides an update on the measure b programs. Thank you.Thank you.You know, I just wanted to make, first of all, thank you glen for acknowledging that and just to say all that's happened and even covid-19, nuria, under your leadership with the team and rog, we are always excited to learn about how you find money. You really are a rainmaker. So thank you to you and your team. Nuria, a recommendation that I would like to make as we work through committee next month, weare going to have a bigger conversation around the transit plan, I would like to recommend that the discussion on the ridership numbers and also what's happening with people being passed up, and couplingsafety report, I think there is value to reporting this out through each committee so folks can better understand how you are responding on the ground. Because I think one of the points that captain lara raised that I thought was interesting is by hearing all the three reports together, the way you structured them, it gives you a series of pictures of challenges that are happening that will help us make the ext decisions on the next phase of work. And to my concern, that it's going to be difficult to dive into all the details tonight, but I do really think that we ought to at least offer that to the committee chairs prior to theDecember meeting.For those of you who are chairs on the board, does that sound okay with you to hear these items in committees? As a partner because I think the packages are what is unique for the three pieces of it andtogether brought some different strategies to mind. Are there any questions from my colleagues for nuria and her team? I don't see any, but I am going to make that request as a next step. All right. We are going to move on. I do not have a report and will see if there are any items for referral. Elaine, i'm sorry. Elaine, let me just do items for referral real quick and then I will come back to you to finish up. Are there any announcements from my colleagues? I know elaine has one. Elaine, do you want to make your announcement?Yes, thank you, madam chair, corrections for items 7. 2 and 7. 3. There was a vote for member nu?ez.Thank you for that.With that, we are going to take public comment on our last item and then we are going to wrap up.Testtessa, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you so much. The one thing I want to say when mayor liccardo, recused and you don't ote on the item, I think it's really important that e would articulate what his relationship is for him not to be able to vote on that issue. I think that will be full disclosure. That will help us understand his relationship to the businesses that he is representing because that seems to be the orientation of our boards. So really having that openness. I see that in the city council when our city council members, i'm a real estate agent and that really clouds our decision making to really represent the cities, the people. I think we shouldn't be working in any other jobs unlesswe are all identifying this. This is really critical.Blair, May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, with this meeting, I really reminded myself that you guys are considering what is he real future f mass transportation in santa clara county. I know youwant to do the private transportation but I know we have a few more years with covid and maybe not have to do dramatic things be at this time. There is that balance and give and take. I hope you can figure that out what that i. On a long-term goal, you guys were busting people on a light rail for years and that's an issue that really had to be looked at again. And finally to conclude with the 85 project that you talked about tonight, you know, I hope you can consider just the east side and just, use that balance, the same with the google issue. Just balance the east side issues.So, I want to say thank you to our public speakers, but also to our board. Thank you for the robust discussions and nuria, to you and your staff. Thank you for the amazing work particularly our drivers and our customer service folks who are working with the public and our public safety folks. With that, we are adjourned and I look forward to seeing you all even if it's on the internet very soon. Thank you for thebeautiful reminder of charlotte powers and in whose honor we adjourn tonight. Thank you, everyone. Be well.Thank you. good night.