January 7, 2021Valley transportation authority5:34 PMPlease stand by...>> [oath] congratulations and welcome to the vta.Congratulations. i'm going to have more words to say bout you guys a little bit later. Next, I would like to welcome council member otto, I think he is here as well. I want to thank all the new board members that have joined us and in my chair comments, i'm going to talk about the board in general. You will notice there is other appointments from other city groups that have not been finalized. So we won't finalize the board roster. Now I will ask my board members to unmute their mics and we'll have a roll call.5:35 PM>Clerk: [roll call]We have a quorum.Awesome. that's an excellent way to start. We are going to move on to orders of the day. 1. 3. I want to note we have an addendum to the agenda of the general mnager's eport 1x are are there any exchanges from my colleagues?5:36 PMGoing once, going twice. I think because there is no changes, we don't have to vote on that. Is that correct?Right.Okay, we are racing along here.Chair hendricks, we have two members of the public that would like to speak under orders of the day.Okay, if this is under orders of the day, that's fine. Let's go ahead and have these speakers.5:37 PMOkay.Milton, followed by roland, milton, please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: i'm notprepared. Can I do it in 10-15 minutes from now.Sure.Mr. Chair, this is elaine. May I interrupt for a second?Yes.To remind the public, we are under orders of the day right now. If you plan to speak under public comment, we will get to that as part of the agenda a little bit later.Thank you.Next speaker, please.Next is roland. public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair. So the question is, i'm not seeing any item on the agenda whereby the new board members will be able to elect the chair and vice-chair. The question to the chair, is whether you are waiting for the full board to be seating before you address such an item, thank you.5:38 PMOkay, we'll address questions at the end.Next speaker, please.Clerk: next, we have corvette. public speaker: the next person. Blair, please accept the unmute and begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi, thank you. I wanted to simply use this time of orders of the day to wish everyone a happy new year and welcome the new vta board members. Thank you.5:39 PMNext, we have milton. you May begin speaking when ready. Please accept the unmute and begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: I urgently support any ideas that eugene bradley would be speaking to youabout in the future and today. Thank you.Chair, that ends public comment.Again, since we had no changes to the orders of the day, we don't have to actually take a vote. The next item is awards and commendation.2. Awards and commendation resolution of appreciation for 2020 vta board chairperson cindy chavez.5:40 PMMay I have a motion and a second.I motion.Second.May we have a voice vote?Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes unanimously.Okay. so, this is to the honorable cindy chavez. Cindy, I wish we can be in person to do this. I'm going to go ahead and read this. Whereas cindy chavez is completing her term as the 2020 chairperson for the vta board of directors and vta's response to covid-19 pandemic including numerous changes to service levels and in the joint effort with other bay area transit operators and whereas cindy chavez' steady leadershipincluding the operational maintenance agreement and the grand reopening of the berryessa station union 2020. Whereas cindy havez collaborated with groups to get an agreement in place. Whereas cindy chavezchampioned efforts and sustained vta transit operations and increased climate change and therefore we recognize cindy chavez for her work with ta 2021. Before you say anything, I would like to thank you for your leadership and helping me to be a better chair. Thank you. Would you like to share anything with us?5:42 PMI would just like to say it was great working with you and enjoyed your wonderful ideas and would like to say thank you to nuria and the whole team at vta. This is very extraordinary times and i'm honored to serve as your leader. Thank you for allowing me to serve as your chair.5:43 PMThank you for everything you did. Before I go on, I want to answer the question to one of the public members. The board accepted the chair and vice-chair t the December meeting. It's already done andcompleted.Resolution of appreciation for retiring deputy general manager/chief financial officer raj srinathCould we have a motion and second.So moved.Second.Could we have a vote, please.5:44 PMClerk: carrasco, chavez, constantine, davis, lee, liccardo, mcallister, montana, paul, peralez, jones, hendricks, motion passes unanimously.Again, raj, I wish we can go ahead in person and do this and what i'm reading, these are documents that are presented to both our people today. Whereas raj is retiring after more than 10 years with vision, integrity and transparency and whereas he demonstrated tireless stability and vta's longstandingaccomplishments, whereas raj brought us to the successful conclusion of all current vta bargaining groups and saved millions of dollars in restructuring any outstanding debt and brought to development the 2016 measure b ballot tax program. And whereas his accomplishments have been brought through exceptionalprofessionalism and responsibilities as general manager and chief financial officer nd while meeting theneeds of the board and customers. Now, therefore be it resolved the vta board of directors does commend you and express sincere appreciation for your exemplary service to vta adopted by the vta board ofdirectors January 2021. Raj, I very much wish you the best luck on your new position that you are going to. I really wish you were going to be staying here at vta, but I understand your changing to the other coast. It's better here on the west coast, but i'm sure you are going to do fantastic in your new position.5:46 PMThank you, Mr. Chair. it's more for personal reasons, my family, my only daughter is in washington d. C. , so I want to get back there. Yeah, I do want to share a couple of things, any and which you just said, none of which I could have done without the confidence and support of the board members. Some of you haveknown a little bit and you an5:47 PMAnand you all have been outstanding and nuria, what can I say. It has been great to work with you and I hope I will run into you again. Last but not least, i'm thankful to my colleagues and my staff for putting up with me. Thank you so much for your patience, your dedication and your support. I will republican # -- I will remember all of you as long as I live. Someone said, do not measure your wealth from your bank the character and the caliber of - friends you have. I certainly say this, I will be leaving the bay area a lot richinner inner inner inner inner inner inner -- richer than when I came here.5:48 PMI would like to thank you for your service, raj, you have put up with me. I appreciate your honesty and your integrity and dealing with very complicated challenges whether it's negotiating with the bargainingagreement units and you have been in some really big issues for our agency and i'm so grateful for your commitment to public service and grateful to get to know you, raj. Thank you.5:49 PMThank you, mayor.Thank you. member chavez?Thank you. also want to say thanks. I have been on this board for many years now, goodness, I can't even count. I want to just compliment our executive director for iring really sharp leaders to be part of this organization. Raj, the role that you played in really helping us understand our finances and being veryaggressive about saving money and thinking very critically about how to leverage resources, I appreciate your predecessors but I didn't know what we were missing until we got you. Thank you for your service and thank you for choosing the public sector. You don't have to and i'm grateful that you have.5:50 PMThank you very much.Awesome. could we ake a second here and can I ask my members to turn on their video so we can take a screen shot of this illustrious group here.I want to be sure I get everyone.Awesome. thank you. next, 3. Public comment reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. The amount of time allocated for this we'll keep this to 20 minutes.5:51 PMSection of the agenda May vary at the chairperson's discretion depending on the number of speakers and length of the agenda. The law does not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under special circumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing.Let's start with public comment with our speakers. Public speaker: hello, I will like to congratulate everyone at this meeting, especially raj. I would like to congratulate you on what you are doing for covidmeasures. And I would like to say bravo to everyone here.5:52 PMOkay, thank you.Next is mike. please begin speaking and accept the unmute. He dropped off. Next greg followed by roland,followed by blair. Please accept the unmute. It looks like he dropped off. Roland, you May begin speakingwhen ready. Public speaker: hank you, Mr. Chair. The first thing I would like to bring up is we only get one minute to address the board and it's kind of tough for this presentation when it was posted at 10:00 this morning while I was writing for the meeting that's due for 1:00. I'm talking about the letter in December that suggested the work for caltrain and suggested funding which would be between 55 and $90 million and use that funding for the san jose corridor because we don't have any kind of service down there. We are leaving people on the side of the road. The day I wrote that letter, I learned that someone trying to get on, couldn't get on the side of the road.5:54 PMNext is phone number ending in # 3322. You May begin speaking when ready.Okay, chair, i'm moving on to the next person. Blair.Public speaker: hi, the ideas need to be rethought of and reviewed and reimagined our purpose of the rles.I hope that vta will establish some ethics to reboard and allow for a public process and review for any large advertising in the place of the future of vta transit hubs and there also must be a local barrier input toinclude the 60 plus much over rated gunshot technology speakers in the north san jose areas to bart station when bart speakers could do the same job. The new trash cans at local transit ubs have the datacollection scientific research apps and for more cont-- controversial apps that have certain apps that have civil rights and civil protections. Thanks a lot.5:55 PMNext is eugene. please speak when you are ready. Public speaker: good eening, board members and happy new year. This is eugene bradley, founder and ceo trans # transit users. I want to talk about the time limit and does not allow for public review and board members to spend millions of dollars f our tax dollars todescribe how this will be. Also given this new era of hate and recent failed oupe by certain president, there are issues to be addressed that will be addressed throughout the action items. Also, congratulations to all new incoming board members and committee members. Thank you. Thank you.5:56 PMThank you, eugene. I think that's our last speaker. We'll close that section. We do not have any items under item 4. So we'll go to committee reports. 5. Committee reports (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter) marty, good to see you.Good evening, everyone, happy new year, welcome new board members. Chairperson hendricks, vice-chair chappie jones and members of the board. I have a brief report tonight. This will be my last report as chair after 16 plus years serving on tac. Serving as chair was challenging however, i'm pleased to say that the tac continue doing our civic duty without losing a step. Also without no small part due without vta support.Many others. As I mentioned to you in the past meeting, we are still recruiting new members for the tac, myself and others that have been on the committee for a long time, we will be cycling in June 2021. We have still room for more. We talked about the transit operations performance report and the 2016 measure b bicycle pedestrian education encouragement fiscal year 2021 programs. The city did not have any regular agenda items. At our December meeting, the nomination subcommittee voted and selected a new chair and vice-chair. I promise there will be a peaceful transition to new leadership and now I would like to introduce our new chair, nathan and vice-chair who are here tonight to say a few words.5:59 PMHello, my name is -- I will be serving as the new chair. We are very excited. 2021 is going to be a very interesting year for vta especially with us being a citizen watch dog and advisory group between the public and vta staff. So I look forward to this very challenging year and certainly communicating with you all periodically during this tough time. Thank you.Hi, everyone. i'm the vice-chair for this year. It will be hard to follow mark and everybody else who aretransitioning out of tac, but I hope will be more like me for people who want to use transit. I come from a background of planning so I hope to continue my learning and vta's practices. Thank you so much.6:00 PMThank you.Anything you want to close with anything, marty?Yes. our new schedule for January will be a little later than we usually do. It will be January 27, 2021, for all of those members of the public and the board that be listening. That really concludes my report. I'm happy o answer any questions if you have any.I'm not seeing any questions from my colleagues. But marty, first of all, I want to say thank you for the amount of work that you do and your job and the time you spent this last year and a pleasure to see youevery month at this meeting here. And to nash and gower, congratulations on your new role. Thank you all of you for the time and effort you put in to help with this. Member chavez, do you have anything you would like to share?6:01 PMMarty, I want to say thank you for your years of service and commitment and connecting to the board and committee. Just a big bear hug for all of your work.Thank you both. I really appreciate that and I am very committed to the vta whether i'm on the committee or not. Congratulations to the in you members. Thank you.Thank you very much.Next. (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (constantine) is available in the online packet.Chairpersons' report. (verbal report) this report is available in the online packet. Chairpersons' report.(verbal this is available in the online packet.6:02 PMLet me go to public comment.Blair, you May begin speaking when ready.Public speaker: thank you. I would like to give a thank you to the outgoing chair of the cac, he was a very nice person and made myself feel very welcome. Thank you for your service. For over five years now, I have used my individual voice to describe and voice the importance of a clu studies and concepts to help realize what is more peaceful and more democratic policy ideas and what could be a more sustainablefuture in which o live and i'm interested to see what this will build collectively nationally and internationally. Thank you. Good luck in this year. Thank you.6:03 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: roland.Thank you, Mr. Chair. and thank you for your work with the cac. And I have been able to angle the cac and moving forward, they really stop the paying attention to measure a. Measure a is in serious trouble. Right now measure a is $800 million in debt and with 15 years to pay it off. There is barely enough money to pay for that ervice and have any money left for transit. The sooner they get into this and really start to find out what's really going on and can report back to the board, the better. Thank you.6:04 PMThank you. nuclearNext speaker, please. public speaker: hello, thank you. I want to start by congratulating raj who retiredrecently. Sorry about that. Another thing I would like to --6:05 PMI apologize, chair. next person is roland.I think we already had roland. Next person is eugene.Public speaker: good evening, board members, eugene bradley. Silicon valley transit users. I want to commend the tac chair. With my experience with the tac, they are definitely more approachablapproachable than those with the other committees. I would like to see vta incorporate more of their input into these board positions. Why would you have an advisory committee when team board members inore.While it May not be the most convenient. Please listen to the tac before. That's why it's called the citizens board. Thank you.6:06 PMThank you. that takes us to item 6 which is the consent agenda. Item 6. 1 through 6. 6. Members who would like to address the board on the agenda items, please go ahead now or press star 9 on your phone.Members, are there any items that you would like to pull off consent or add to the consent agenda.Member paul?6:07 PMYes, chair, I would like to read a statement with regard to item 6. 2. I'm announcing for the record that I serve on city council and I receive a stereostipend from the city and under code session 1. 589, I have anon-interest in the contract and not required to recuse myself from this item.Thank you. member liccardo?Is it possible to pull item 6. 1 for discussion?Yes.Do you want to do that now or do you want to wait?Well, if we are going to pull 6. 1, we'll go ahead and vote on the consent agenda and come back and do 6.1 if that's okay with you.6:08 PMSure, sounds great. i'm always happy to talk sooner. Thank you.So in item 6.1. obviously the world has changed dramatically in the last 72 hours with regard to opportunities for this agency for transportation funding. As I reviewed the legislative program in particular, the surface transportation authorization portion, didn't appear and I May have missed it but in that portion beginning on page 6 of the attachment, I didn't see much mention of high-speed rail, and it seems to me we have one shot here and I would hate to see our agency miss out and there is going to be a lot of talk and speakers express their views and it going to be critical to get this money for this project o get over thepass. I think we really need to be in that game and pushing hard because if we are not, the project will end up probably heading south and never getting to the bay area. And this is a huge, I think, opportunity for us for transportation and economic benefit. So, i'm interested in hearing from staff about whether i'mmissing it and maybe there is somewhere elsewhere there is high-speed rail that is more explicitly advocated for.6:09 PMThank you, Mr. Chair, if I may. The references to high-speed rail are associated with the state portion of thelegislative program. Of if it's convenient or acceptable to the board, we can certainly include language in the federal section that mirrors what we have in the state section because as Mr. Liccardo has indicated, there is probably greater opportunity now to lobby for certain things. The affect taken for the federalsection is broad for issues like this if it would come up, we would have authorization from the board to pursue that. But we are happy to add more language if that's the will of the board.6:10 PMOkay, wonderful. I will be happy to make that motion in a moment. Thank you, jim. Another question I had, is we have benefited tremendously from the program, I believe we will. Thanks to nuria and the team.I know we have similar ambitions around perhaps transforming our light rail ystem through two more innovative approaches to transportation and I wonder if it is worth us trying to get into a more specific advocacy for a program that would expand an epd light program throughout equivalent to transform existing rails to more cost-effective models. I don't know if there is such a program now at the federal illegal, -- level, but this could be the opportunity to push.6:11 PMI agree. the program does have language to start such programs so there are opportunities within that.The challenges we will have is with the epd program in general because at this point we are still the only applicants under that program and our press has been to try to ove so the program is continued and broader and has more opportunities for others to participate because that's one way to assure that it will continue.6:12 PMYes, agreed. okay.Nuria: I wanted to interject that there are other programs that support new innovation and what you have described the new innovation transit systems will fall under that category. We will continue to look into these programs. I think the ebd programs is a larger infrastructure and looking at technology and innovation, there are many other grants and programs available that we can pursue. Mr. Lawson's suggestion that it would be broad is the best course.6:13 PMOkay, thank you. well, I will take that advice and make the motion to approve 6. 1 with the amendment with that for the transportation authorization to replace the fast act to be some language to include high-speed rail for funding for california.Second.Okay. before we go to any other, if that's the motion, before we go to any comments, we'll we do to our public speakers. If we can go ahead and go to our public speakers.Roland? public speaker: the reason that vta s with -- they severed the bank from l. A. To palmdale. Right now they are going to anaheim. I'm still waiting for us to settle gilroy to merced because where are you going to find the million dollars, you won't. Essentially they awarded a five year $700 million evergreencontract that will guarantee the status quo at caltrain for the next seven years after n excess of 100% of measure r. They are going to give this contract to a firm that is assaulting passengers including an examplethat nearly killed -- 7,000.6:15 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: blair. Thank you to the mayor for speaking about high-speed rail. I don't think this is much about l. A. But tracy and the pass area. The bay area, they are in a big fight themselves about the issues of their own trains and that's a partfer your own joint powers board work. So good luck in these efforts. Thanks for the mayor in clearing this up. With the experimental transportation issues, you have to be considering in the next five years a bus electric chargers and electric buses and that as to be a pretty important precedence in how you are onsidering the budget on the vta issues for the next five years with the planning of this ab and hopefully this all connects with housing issues on the west side.6:16 PMJohn?Public speaker: hello, this is john. Happy new year everyone. I'm looking forward to working in the future together on transportation in silicon valley. I can tell you one of the solutions is to ot get rid of light rail.Your job is to make light rail work and I haven't seen that. All I hear from the mayor is his disdain for light rail. I get it. You don't like it. If you are driving this light rail, you are going to have an issue with acu. They have played a significant role and mayor pete is the department of transportation head and the department of labor. So we will fight it on every turn to keep people working.6:17 PMThank you, john.Next, helen, you May begin speaking when ready.Okay, helen is unmuted.6:18 PMYou can move on, chair.Thank you.Now to y colleagues. does anyone have any questions about the consent calendar? Seeing none, May we have a voice vote.This is elaine, I want to confirm to the motion that the items include 6. 1 to 6. 6?6:19 PMYes, they do.[roll call]Motion passed, thank you.This is theodorea, I see the vice-chair's speaker on but he doesn't seem to be connected.Okay, i'm sure chappie will work on that in the background.I will be in his absence.We are moving on to the regular agenda. 7. 1. Action item - approve appointments to board standingcommittees, joint powers boards, policy advisory boards, and ad hoc committees for 2021. Updated long-term sales tax6:20 PMDo you have something to add?Yes.The appointments will include chairs of the standing committees and members of the other committees.The standing committees are administration and finance, congestion management program and planning,safety security, planning and operations, capital program committee and the governance in audit. I'm not going to read the attachment, but you can see for yourself the various committees and the appointments as recommended by chair hendricks for this year. And with that, staff will be ha ed # -- happy to answer any questions and request approval for the submitted nominations.Okay, before I go any of my colleagues or the public, I want to add, this is one of the chair's responsibility to go through. I did reach out and I think I did speak to almost all the board members that we have about the different committee assignments to see what we can get. It was actually a very interesting task to go through because we have so many new people on the board which made it a little bit more challenging on the board assignments. Before I go to colleague questions, let's go to members of the public first.6:21 PMBlair? public speaker: the joint powers board works with the capital corridor train that is going to the fremont area and fremont is going through a big to do about the future of their train stations and do theyseparate the ace rail from the capital corridor train stations, and is that setting the goal of a possible, the future of high-speed rail. Thank you to the mayor of san jose for speaking, trying to offer layout terms of what to expect about the high-speed rail. And with 22 seconds, I wanted to quickly offer the av ideas can be applicable to the west side housing issues, but it's just housing issues in gneral, low-income and housing affordable housing issues that really needs to be important in west side housing issues. Thankyou.6:23 PMThank you.You May begin speaking when you are ready.Chair, it doesn't look like he is accepting the unmute.Okay, i'm going back to my colleagues. Mr. Mallister?Chair, I noticed you did make an appointment and did appoint me to an area as you know i'm still sitting in for north county too and this will be my last meeting as we plan an appointment. But I would like for you if it's possible to consider moving someone from north county to the cmpp committee. Right now it appearsthat you have a lot of people representing the northeast part of the county. Well, the north county has a large employment center with major traffic congestion concerns. So, if it's possible, please considerappointing the council from the mayor of mpp for this project in this area. Those are my thoughts.6:24 PMWe'll take that under advisement when that area decides to put in a person. I'm not doing all this temporary stuff. You are the guy until they tell somebody else. You are only gone soon. Member liccardo?Sentiment since you are not h - knowing who is going to be the representative and my ideas would e sylvia and moving on to the board replacing council member diep and council member carrasco. I want you to be aware of that. We've had some off line conversations but I don't know if that's considering anything here or not.6:25 PMI would suggest we go ahead and adopt this nd as we get other names, then we can come back with other adjustments.Great.So board member liccardo and mcallister, I assume your hands are down now?Yes.So with no other comment. I would like a motion, please.So move. liccardo.Second, chavez.6:26 PMSeeing no other comments, May we have a voice vote.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes unanimously. thank you.Next item is an information item 7. 2. Information item - receive updated long-term sales tax revenue forecast by university of california, los angeles (ucla). (verbal report)Thank you, Mr. Chair and good evening everyone. For everybody's benefit, doctor who is on the call is an economist from ucla and the school of business, they are the ones that provided this forecast. Before I turn it over to Dr. Bengali, I want to go over a brief background to remind everyone of the history of how we arrived at some of the numbers here. If you can go to the next slide, please.6:27 PMThank you.In 2015, when vta was getting ready to put the 2016 measure b on the ballot, we retained ucla's economist to get a sense of what we can expect for the revenues for the tax period. At that point, they came up with what is called the nominal value as you can see in the box on the July 2015 forecast of $11.5 billion for a third year period. The next column is what is called the net present value of what oes it mean in $2,017. The reason 2017, although the measure was passed in 2016, tax revenue collection did not begin until April of 2017 and hence we discounted that back to 2017. And that turned out to be $6. 3 billion in $2,017. Then fast forward, June 2020, before hen, the pandemic hit us in march, we kind of noticed that everybody experienced that the economy was falling off a cliff and it kind of did happen in late March and April so we were padding it, especially vta, we live and die by sales tax revenues. For be # -- transit operations and it's critical to get a sense of what happens when something like covid-19 hits andthe shutdown. And I did present the highlights at the June board meeting. As you can see from the middle box, the revenues forecasted at that point were substantially lower than what had been forecasted years ago ago. These were the early days of the pandemic and everybody was panicking and the economy and yes, a lot of things were falling off the cliff and nobody had a sense how quick the duration of the recovery of the economy, nobody knew that. That was that. A few months after that, when we received the actual sales tax for our last fiscal quarter that ended June 30th and by the way, we received the actuals twomonths after that in september. We knew the receipts were actually much higher than the June 2020 forecast, yes it was certainly lower than what we had budgeted, no question about it, but it was a lot better than than the forecast we received. However, the numbers that we got from the different parties also it estimated the advantages we got from the state taxation board were slightly higher. So I contacted them sometime in October of last year in 2020, to get an understanding to do this in the June 2020 forecast, as the correct one we should be following or those were pretty early days and they have someupdate to provide us. They did say that yes, they will provide us n update, but that would be led to January because they wanted to see several uncertainties behind the presidential election and wherecovid-19 was headed and the cares act funding behind it. At least one of those variables which was the election yesterday not knowing who the president will be and the last part of January 2021 forecast as you can see it is definitely better than the June 2020 forecast but still lower than the earlier ones and you can discount the $2,017 because of comparison for purposes back to 2017 is $5. 5 billion. So I wanted to provide this background before I turn it over to Dr. Bengaley because it's critical to understand thesedifferent time periods and in her presentation, she will go through what the assumptions are in the forecast and the three different forecast. Biois included in the reading material, but very briefly, Dr.Benningly ben galley has a phd from -- and technology.6:33 PMYou have the floor.Thank you, everyone. before we start my presentation, i'm going to talk to you today about a brief over of the california economy, the local economy and our forecast. So that's the outline for what i'm going to bespeaking about. This chart here is the u. S. In a nutshell. The big picture of what I want to talk to you about is that things are turning out to be less severe than we were expecting in june. The u. S. Level, the state level and locally as well. So, starting, his chart shows real gdp for the u. S. And the figures i'm going to show you are calendar year. So keep that in mind. This is real gdp and you can see it fell at a rate of31% and then quarter 3, 33%. And fitting with the theme of our forecast being more pessimistic than what ended up happening is our forecast in June was expecting gdp to be about 12% and it came in about 33%.So, if you look at the last bar on the right and compare that to quarter 4, 2019, real gdp in the u. S. Is 3.4% below what it was in quarter 4 of 2019. If we we do if we go to the next slide, you will see figures comparing california and the u. S. . This slideshows a percent change in total non-farm payroll in jobsrelative to February 2020. That's why February is t that zero mark there. The u. S. Is blue line and california is the gold lne. You can see that in percentage terms, california and the u. S. Experienced a similar decline in payroll jobs at 15% bombing out in april, but since then in percentage terms,employment in california has not recovered as much as employment has recovered in the u. S. . Soemployment in california is down about 8% or as of november, the most recent data down about 8% from February 2020, in the u. S. About 5%. Moving on to the next slide at the local economy. On the economic indicators, santa clara county is doing better than the state overall. The map on the left shows where red colors are showing higher labor rates and the green colors lower rates. Santa clara has the lower ratesabout 5. 1% compared to 8. 2% in california overall. One possible contributing factor is that incomes are higher on average in the county than in other counties in the state and across counties there is a strong correlation between incomes and unemployment rate. So counties with higher incomes tend to have lower unemployment rates. If we look at the metro area, this is going to include bow santa clara county, this is the aren't chart shows you measures of employment relative o February 2020. The blue line is the northern farm payroll jobs and the gold line is household employment. You can see the blue line total non-farm payroll employment is down about 6. 6% from February of 2020 and compare this to the 8% incalifornia overall. Again with the story that the local santa clara county economy is doing a little bit better than the state overall. Now let's move on to the next slide in the forecast. This is showing the key indicators from our forecast in taxable sales. Again these are calendar years. The historical ctuals are inthe olid blue colors and the current forecast is in the gold. The 2015 forecast is the dash dark blue and the forecast from June of 2020 is the dash light blue. So you can see the 2015 forecast is more optimistic fromthe forecast in June to the forecast we made now and in a minute I will talk about why. Before I do that, let's move on to the next slide. This picture looks very similar in shape showing sales tax receive relative to the tax measure and this is the actual information and the gold is our forecast. Some examples in thecurrent forecast, for calendar years, we are expecting annual revenue to be about $248 million in 2023, $285 million in 2030, 343 by 2040. I would like to talk to you about the forecast. We are looking me general at the exercise as you have to rely on information between variables in the past and assumption in the future. We take a top down approach. We have a forecast model for the u. S. And california and we otuse the outputs for these two forecast to get our santa clara county forecast. The short-term and long-term matter. The short-term is the pandemic and about returning to northern californiaal co-- normal activity. The vaccine will become more widely available and the economy will take steps towards returning to normal. On the long run, we cycle out these fluctuations and focus on the modeling the growth rates.We see that tax rate revenue is an important tax variable for the state and we take this proportion given and try not to model movements in that proportion over time. Now going on to the next slide, I want to spend some time talking about the different forecast. Specifically here talking about June 2020 versusnow, why is our forecast now more optimistic and the main reason is that spending on goods recovered to prerecession level quickly and much more than we anticipated and this is showing percentages on goods in blue in services and red and to January 2020. So you can see that the blue line has gone up back beyond the dash black line at 100. And it's worth keeping in mind here or important to keep in mind that goods are think of goods as things you buy at the store like clothes or household appliance and these are things that are generally subject to sales tax. Purposes you can think of things like healthcare services and going to the dentist and generally not for sales tax. This is showing the data at the u. S. Level because that isavailable at a much higher frequency at the state level and we are expecting partners in california to be similar based on a number of data sources on consumer spending. As we go on to the next slide, we can look at the general long run perspective to california in 2019 compared to our forecast now to June 2020.The short answer as to the difference is we have a lot of new information. This table is showing you a compound annual growth rate for a number of variables in california and I want to show you what is circledin gold which is a real gdp and population. You can see what is leading up to the time we made the 2015 forecast, both gdp growth and population higher than to the forecast we made in June of last year is similar to this year. Those are the drivers behind why the forecast more recently is less optimistic than the forecast we made in 2015. If you end on the next slide, this takes the same information that was talking about, population and real gdp and makes it into a chart. If you look at the annual growth bars they are the generates for the gdp in the county and the gold bars for 2010, 2009 to 2014, 2015 time frames are similar to the gold bars. Similar to the blue bars, those bars are higher than the 2015 forecast and muchlower and in fact you can see the most recent from the census, the population growth has been negative.Demographers don't always agree that department of finance don't always have the most updated census for the year. And this is what we have on the model. So that is what I have to present on the forecast.6:44 PMMr. Chair, we'll turn it over to you. Public speaker:We'll go to public comment.Public speaker: blair.It important to talk about affordable housing along the route then these ideas. Thank you for talking about the issues. It's a very interesting report. I thank you very much to the speaker. It made the issues very clear to me. Thank you for your efforts in auditing at this time. I think it's going to really introduce positive steps for ourselves as a whole community in the future, how to work more honestly, truthfully and straight forward with numbers and how we can describe to each other what's happening and good luck to ourselves and all of those efforts. Thank you.6:45 PMThank you.Roland, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: sorry about that. Thank you for that presentation. I do have one question. It's whether this forecast include the projected taxes including the migration from states other than california and examples. Hp, cal swab, and potentially anytime as you May know is in palo alto. Thank you.6:46 PMThank you.Before I go to my colleagues, Dr. Bengaley, do you want to address that question about corporations leaving?Yes, that's something we considered as optimistic or high scenario and also pessimistic and low scenario and in those different scenarios, we make the assumption about the extent that there will be migration ofbusinesses out of the state and out of the county. I would say that there the data, there are a lot of anecdotes as the commenter noted. Data on official headquarters of businesses and when and what extent we are seeing migration are hard to come by. Even data on individuals migrating, you can get that information, but it's unfortunately not available for sufficient time lag. At present we are relying on ataavailable and making assumption by way of seeing a lot of migration businesses moving out, that would affect the forecast and no migration and where there is high scenarios or low scenarios and a lot of migration and not a lot of migration as to individuals. And the migration 3 of individuals and businesses tolocations where cost of doing business are lower is efficient and the void left by businesses to migrate it is safe to assume will be filled by new businesses. So it's migration is something we talked about in intro economics as a good thing for economies and for efficiency, it could also be that established businessesdon't benefit as much as from the network as being located in an area where there are a lot of other tech businesses. So it's those businesses that move away and leave space for new businesses that do need theextra network externalities are good for the economy from an economic perspective.6:49 PMOkay, thank you. now I am going to my colleagues. Member liccardo.Thank you. doctor, i'm not sure if you yourself was involved in the 2015 projection, i'm sorry, emberson forecast was involved.I wasn't involved with that at that time.I'm sorry. william u, who is still in your group was the lead economist and I believe you still work together and this is perhaps joint for the product for the two of you.6:50 PMThat's correct. thank you for the clarification.Okay, all fair. and raj knows me to be a chronic pessimist when it comes to sales tax projections. I'm sorry to continue on that rant. As you go to slide 8 and look at the 2015 projection and you can see clearly we under shot it quite a bit by 2015 and 2019, that's the gap between the dotted line and the solid line nd yet I saw on slide 11, that was a period where we had 6. 5% gdp growth which was like republic of chinalevels of growth, and yet, we still, you never got to the slope of the line that was estimated back in 2015.So I feel safer asking this question since you can say it wasn't me, but can you help us understand, why did we miss so much during which should have been a time of great economic expansion?6:51 PMSo, forecasting is one of those industries where you are almost always wrong, so we are very used to being wrong. I pointed out a couple reasons, real gdp growth and also population growth which is another thing that I didn't mention which is inflation was a forecast and we thought how we use inflation in our forecast especially when we are looking at things like sales tax and one reason why and maybe this isgetting a little technical so feel free for a follow up if this gets a little too confusing. So statistics in thestates have different components like healthcare costs and housing and rental costs, those are not subject to sales tax, but those things have risen inflation for those things have been particularly high. If you don't account for that then you might think there is more inflation that is subject to sales tax. So that's anotherreason. Okay, in slide a, the y axis is not adjusted.6:52 PMThese are nominal values. that's correct.I see. okay. this would look a lot flatter in terms of dollars, correct?Yes, when you turn things to nominal to real because you are taking out the factors of inflation.6:53 PMDoes the scale get to 0 on that yellow line or is it still upward?I would have to double check on our forecast.Okay.If you need time.In our baseline, that is very close to 0.Thank you, that's very helpful. Thank you very much.Thank you.Vice-chair, jones?Thank you, chair. I have a question around online sales and particularly your chart where you showed the growth of goods versus services. So I imagine since those online sales are goods, that that would have apretty impact full affect on the curb. So I want to understand how you came to online sales tax revenue into your forecast.6:54 PMSo, we don't have data on which sales are made line versus not. It's sort of a general comment that's helpful for thinking about our forecast overall is that part of forecasting or one of the tenets of forecasting is there is a lot of persistence. And the most recent forecast we produced was in January of 2021 there was enough information from let's say the second half of 2020 where any partners that were occurring second half of 2020 including shifts for buying online would be incorporated on our forecast going forwardbecause we would rely on what happened last quarter thinking about at a high level about how people are purchasing goods and services and it does appear to be the case anecdotally it seems like a lot of purchases are being made online about the tax able sales numbers.6:55 PMMay comment on that?Yes.One thing to note and i'm sure many of the board members are aware of this. Awe vta gets sales taxes and doesn't matter where as long as the goods are purchased in the address to the county, vta gets a percentage of those taxes. Unlike the cities in the county get a portion of that which are calledappropriation or allocation. Amazon, by the way, is one of the top sales tax revenues in the county. So vta's standpoint with the whether or not the taxes lie on this situation.6:57 PMAny questions?Yes, I would like to let people know that we have amazon and vta is getting all of your taxes. So that's good. Just a high note there.Okay, i'm not seeing anymore comments. I appreciate you coming and sharing your knowledge and thoughts with us.Information on the federal transit administration (fta) expedited project delivery (epd) application for vta's bart silicon valley phase ii extension project. Sharing with us again.6:58 PMI know, my last day is tomorrow. Anyway, Mr. Chair, thank you. Before I turn the presentation over to one of my colleagues and one consultant on this, I will note the memo on this agenda item, the reason I want o mention that memo is that highlights an information on instruction with fda November 23rd, that vta, we are ready to receive your application. What does that mean? And this is in the application for bart phase 2.Needles to say, subject to that application is a critical and necessary step to receive $1. 7 billion for bart phase 2. The reason that is important right now is fta gave us the green light to submit the application because here are several requirements before we submit the vta application, all that has been completed, now, for example, certain agreements which the vta calls the critical third party agreements which is tell con, city and counties applicable, that's one and we have all of those things in place, and the second thing, the critical component account public private partnership in place the agreement in place as the members of the board May recall, we do have a 3 agreement that was executed October have last year. Last but not least, we have to be able to demonstrate financial capacity to deliver the project. And which we do now and I will go through why we believe we have the financial capacity. We can move to the next slide.Definitely or financial capacity has increased. It was not what we thought it was based on 2015, but much better than an a month ago. Also e looked at, we reviewed, model several financing options and we havethe senior director from wsp and project connect, he will go through that. So we believe that financial plan also supports finding of all the 2016 measure b formula based programs. One of the things, I just want to note that bart phase 2's funding comes from many different sources, 2000 measure a, certainly 2016 measure b and 3, fta funding and some state grants on that. So it's 5 or 6 different sources of funding of2016 which are a critical component of that. So that's the reason i'm going to be talk a little bit about 2016 measure because we are not going to use the margins we have now i6 measure b funds to furred bart phase 2 to the detriment of other programs on capacity of other based programs. And she will go through in detail on that. I will speak to this as we get to the end of the presentation. There is more sources of funding available. Let me take it to -- and they can go through in detail, some of the numbers, assumptions and a lot of debt we have assumed. Again, this is a planning document. Those two can change and the coast associated with it. With that, marcella, would you like to take it over?7:03 PMSure, thank you. so, in addition to the updated forecast that raj has already called out, this includesinformation that we have received from the cities, rom the county, from caltrain, and vta planning and project nd engineering and project delivery staff regarding all of the programs and their project needs over the next ten years. This is still being refined with the tac ad hoc subcommittee, and we are anticipating continuing to work with them to present additional scenarios for board discussion at future boardworkshops. So, now oing into the chart of the left side shows allocations to date and over to the right side, there is a look at the next ten years. If you look at the formula programs, what we are proposing is formula share for each of these, local streets and roads, bicycle pedestrian programs and transit operations. That is their 30 year formula share applied to the annual sales tax projection each year. You will notice a little dip in some of them in 2022 because it incorporates a true up from the previous four years. Going to the need capacity base programs, again, we worked with the cities, we worked with thecounty, caltrain, and our own project delivery staff to take a closer look at what each program are and we continue to do that and receive new information. Let me just call out the bart project in particular, after acloser look and incorporating the new information we have that started a bit later and starting slightly less with the measure b program. This ten year outlook does not use all of the program and nate will go into more detail and address the underlying changes and the financial program. Thank you.7:05 PMBefore, Mr. Chair, we move on to this slide, marcella did touch on this and to be clear, there is one previous motion of the spreadsheet that has been circulating around and when somebody makes a comparisons ofthat to this, there is a difference of course. There is all the programs filled out and the need of the program numbers to make this calculation of information marcella and staff received in their discussions with the cities with the county. In bart, if you noticed, the timeline has been compressed to a six year timeline. Theprevious consideration was a seven year cash flow starting in 2024, now in starts in 2025, but ending year is still 2030. I just wanted to note that in case somebody tries to make a comparison. Any planningdocument, you know is subject to continuous improvement and change. This is the change, the most current one. With that, we can go to the next slide and nate, please take it over.7:07 PMOkay, thank you, raj. my name is nate mason. First of all, the numbers we are going to present are yourpresented dollars. The expenditures are based on the known projects as funded in the capital plan so to the extent that we have projects that are now moving forward and we have information about the cost. Wehave incorporated that in the plan. We are applying the forecast which you have the presentation on with the up-to-date numbers there on the revenue side. We are basing it's on a bart cost 2 information with the most recent information available bout the bart project. From fund 2016 measure b, $1. 1 million is going to the financial plan which is 22. 3% of the otal program tax revenues from the amount of the revenue of the finance cost and that's below maximum contribution from 2016 measure b to the bart hase 2 project of 25%. The max is 25% we are at 22. 3% in this financial plan. We have full funding of the 2016 measure b 16 funding formula that are bikes, path, roads and operating assistance. And we are providing $2. 1 billion in funding for other need and capacity based programs. Those are all the major capacity needs programsthat comprise the program and those are consuming 29. 2% of program tax revenues. We are going to give you more detail on that in a moment and there is more capacity available to allocate to other projects in the future. I would like to go to the next slide which provides the graph for expenses for measure b andover the life of the measure from the current fiscal year to the expiration of the measure to 2047. The numbers that you are seeing here are for the life of the measure and not for the ten year period hat was reflected in marcella's slide. We are 3 reflecting the full life of the measure with these graphs with these totals. What you can see what we did with the current financial plan is extending this with the other needs in the capital based programs and those are expenditures in the program and we'll talk in more detailabout what those programs entail and you can see we are looking at the bicycle programs and local streets and roads programs an each year we are making the percentage that those programs call for these programs to be funded at and bart phase 2 project in the dark red most of those expenditures with themeasure b program with the bart project happening in period from 2025 o 2030. Over a six year period that the previous plan featured. And also $1. 4 billion to be allocated here in these expenditures. So there is more to fund in the future. Most of those expenditures are currently in the outermost years of theprogram, so a little bit in 2026, but most of it is from 2032 onward and those will be decisions for the board to determine how best to utilize those funds. What I want to highlight is a graphic to note to zoom in on the programs and I want to provide a summary on how that $2. 3 billion and spending on other need capacity programs breaks out. We will go to the next slide which provides a table. The oth is six categories and bart is one of them and the other one is the next slide where you get grade separation about 900 million. Caltrain corridor capacity about $150 million. S r 85 corridor, 132 million, highway interchanges 842 million. The total amount of spending on those five categories is $2. 35 billion. And then as I mentioned a moment ago there is a remaining amount, a real life of the measure of $1. 4 billion which could be spent at the board's discretion on these uses. Going to the next slide and I want to show the percentage breakdown on these categories. The program revenues, this is the spending from the sales taxmeasure net of the admin and finance charges is shown on this slide. It's at 4% share that the measure calls or and the 7. 89% share. Local streets, 19%. There is the funding categories, bart spending, 4. 3% spending and the other need in the program in this plan and there is an allocation earmarked for them, 29.2% and the allocated 17. 9%, these are funds that are yet to be allocated yet.7:13 PMNext slide, please. I will show we have financing in the program in order to help leverage our spending. In order to be able to spend as much on those programs as the plan shows over the next ten years, we need to borrow. So what we are doing is we are borrowing now, paying for those projects now, getting thebenefit of less escalation because we are delivering those projects sooner and paying for that over time with debt and this plan does make assumption about when that debt might be issued. We are anticipating $1 million in debt and 1. 2 for the next bart provision. We are assuming an average interest rate on that debt about 2. 1% and there is financing cost and the interest payments we would make on that debt over the life of the measure is about $273 million for other need and capacity based programs and $410 million supporting the bart phase 2 project. The financing costs are basically proportional to the share of proceeds going to each of those uses. I'm going to turn it over to raj o talk about how the financing approach can be optimized.7:14 PMThank you, nate, before I speak on this slide, I want to make one point. This is about the demonstration of the financial capacity of # vta to submit the fta application to be received favorably. This does not mean exactly how each program will be funded. Of course there are different scenarios that will be presented by the board. Hopefully the board workshop later this month or subsequent board meetings. Subsequent capacity based if there is no need, for example, those projects get delayed, you don't need the cash specified in this spreadsheet of the model. Then, you don't have to issue debt or you can issue debt lateron. The purposes of this is to demonstrate to the fta, yes, we have the financial capacity. And we have the financial capacity, not to the detriment, not at the cost of other program categories. That is the mainpurpose of this, the debt policy, whether we want to issue this debt and the cost. Those discussions will come back to the board. Those have some policy issues. The board of course is the board's prerogative and be the board will get to weigh in on those. Let me go to this one. A lot of these things in the slide are common ense things, but you know, I have seen common sense doesn't really work. We want to maximize these resources. That's what we are trying to do. We want to make sure we get that and any spending will be charged against that before any of the locals are issued on local bonds. Sending, there has to be activemanagement of cash flow on the project. We went through all the cash flow needs of the project at this point. Those can change. Those are not static. Nobody can forecast what that level f precision exactly what amount you will spend over the next 10-15 years. Those are good estimates, but those contain. So it is up to the project office of finance to closely monitor the cash flows and make sure you issue debt only when needed. And the type of issuance is real critical here. You don't want to issue the construction phase long-term debt and the commercial paper, linfe and short-term notes and that are more nimble instead of getting stuck with a bond. People have done that. And again, once we go through -- finish the construction phase, those notes can be rode into midterm notes or to some bonds. This is a critical slide. I talked about this at the meeting in december. One of the things that transportation infrastructure of finance andinnovation act, that is an extremely valuable financing tool. We have not assumed any of this on our baseline plan. One of the neat advantages of tifia are the term of the loan. It could be as long as 35 years, it doesn't have to be 35, but it could be. And couple of their neat features of that, the interest rate on a tifia loan is one basis point. I know it has gone up to 1. 8 in the last couple weeks, but still, it's at 1. 8 and that's 1. 1%. This is what i'm talking for he 30 year instrument. That's pretty low. Another extremely neat thing about the tifia loan is the principal repayment assuming we get vta to agree and they have on certain projects need not start until five years after substantial completion of the project. So that gives a lot ofsmoothing of cash flows that you are spending. You don't have to spend for that. You can push thepayments further out into the horizon. For instance, if you need the cash in a period, fine, you don't have to pay it back in a same time period but could be pushed back into the future. Those are all things that we can look at, it's not me, but a lot of talented folks at vta and they will look at all of that and those decisions will be made as a vantage time for issuing debt. These are the key takeaways which I touched on at thebeginning of the presentation. The financial capacity now has definitely improved based on the revised forecast from ucla and we have the financial plan for this project and we also have the financial capacity to fund all the formula programs and other needs for capacity for the program based on the information we have for the present time and we will look at other information such as tifia to make the funds available. Ithink that completes the presentation. We are available to answer any questions you May have.7:22 PMOkay, thank you, raj, marcella and nate. I think this is a clearer picture about the opportunities and capacity on the measure b program. I'm going to go to public speakers comments first then back to mycolleagues. If there is any members of the public that would like to speak on this now and let our presenters in.Roland, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you, this is a presentation I referred toearlier that basically was done at 10:00 this morning. The first slide, that's a new name which is income responsible what happened to high-speed rail in california. The problem that you have with this application is that we do not have the financial capacity because measure a subset in 15 years, we are $8 million indebt. The service is $73 million a year and the rate has dropped down to 2. 5. The problem is with the project itself. The sooner you redge up 200, the sooner we are going to be able to put this back on track and proceed with bart phase 2. Thank you.7:23 PMThank you.7:24 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you. It was hard for me to follow n some things, but from the fall, it looks like you were talking about in discussing and you pushed some sort of retooling of bart face 2 funding of 2025. Thank you. As I said, as much as we need to respect road rageissues, we need to look into this and it sounds like you are. Thank you.7:25 PMIf there is any other public speakers, please do so now.Public speaker: this is eugene. Echoing on roland's comments, back in 2000, I was never told that this is going to affect measure a, that one tax and this 1/2 would extent to extending bart and now with measure a with over $800 million in debt not discounting pension liabilities that are owed. Ast time I checked, it was $195 million. How do you think the public is going to respond when they find how much vta is in the hole.This is not a good option. Please get this resolved.7:26 PMOkay, i'm going to other public comment on this item.Yeah, this is elaine from the board office. I wanted to note for the record that this presentation was included in the pdf packet as of 1:00 p. M. Yesterday afternoon.Okay, thank you for that clarification.Since i'm seeing no other public speakers, i'm going over to my colleagues and get their thoughts and questions.Sorry. May I make one comment in response to one of the comments you got?7:27 PMLet's wait and see from the members here.Chair and thank you very much for this complete projection. I just had a question regarding page 4 about the percentages and bart phase 2, the 22. 3% that is mentioned here, does that include he debt service cost or would that service be on top of the 22%?I can respond to that. not just for bart phase 2, in this model, in this situation, debt is contemplated to be issued for other program categories as well. So none of tose, in the measure, program tax have been used as you said, that's defined term in the measure that excludes any administration and financial cost. So in other words, the answer is no, it does not because that is not the definition of the program tax for the measure.7:28 PMSo the debt service is on top of that?Yes.And then i'm trying to get up to speed, but you mentioned the p 3 with partnership, and I was wondering if you can describe that or what that entailed?Sure, absolutely. that is one of vta's proud accomplishments if you will. We entered into an agreement in the fall of last year. Hat will give us the benefit of about $75 million worth of projects. It's a combination of three different things. One was all the entitlements which google spent a lot of resources and money on,that's one. The second thing google providing to the project during the construction period interim part. So google will providing that and the last component, the 3 million, the last component also the temporary construction esement. Collectively all three would benefit the project in terms of revenue or cost to the tune of $75 million.7:29 PMRoger, i# -- raj, if I can add, doesn't that require the other three components and other parts of the project as well?7:30 PMAbsolutely. this is part 3 component and we have an agreement with google which we sent to vta because that is a requirement for the part of the financing of p 3, yes.Thank you. from my past tour I heard a lot about p 3 and it's good to see a project with that.Thank you, member mcallister.Staff, thank you so much for bringing up this chart. I was on a few conversations where people were very concerned about this and I know it's a starting point and guideline and hopefully will make people feel a lot better than about where we are going with this. I think markcella mentioned this, did we use the $5. 5 billion are anticipated revenue over time. Is that correct?7:31 PMThe $5.5 billion of the present value of the $2,017. On a nominal basis is $8. 8 billion. The difference is, for example, we are in 21 now, let's say we get $200 million and a half percent tax in 21, 2023, and and so forth, if you add that up, that's when the measure sunsets and we will get somewhere closer to $300 million. If you add that, taking the total value of the time concentration, that's $7. 8 million. That's the year of receipts. If you discount theat back to 2017, that's 20. 5 million. All of the cost, if you want to compare the right ucla number, that would be 8 billion.7:32 PMOkay, that was helpful. i'm trying to understand again how debt is brought into this project. When we looked at slide 7 where it had the 5 and if we put debt into that pie chart, how would that, what kind of anumber or percentage would that to do that? His if we are able -That could be a wrong thing to do because that is not appropriate. The title says program tax revenues, that is the ceiling of the cap that is applicable to bart that is a defining term to exclude debt and after the administrative cost, the cost of bart cannot exceed 25% and it's below and 22. 3. When you did this slide 4 like the mayor said, it said net of administrative and finance costs. Where do we start seeing a full ost of bart that includes a debt service in those?7:33 PMYes, if they can go to the spreadsheet slide 2 and 3. If you see the debt service to add not only interest alone that includes payments and principle as well as the administrative cost.Is that coming out of the $8. 8 billion?7:34 PMThat's correct.Thank you. that helps to clarify. Also, again, another clarifying question. On chart no. 6, it says sr 85 corridor, $280 million. I know it was in the measure b, here was another $350 million. Is staff saying to go with what we think is a project for sr 85 is only going to cost $280 million?No, this is based on information we received from various discussions I can amplify that. What is requiredon this particular program for the ten year period? And also, what is critical I think for everyone to focus is the last line on this, we still have a bill 4 left to allocate.7:35 PMAs city. let's be clear in about 30 years. Very quickly if you can illuminate who you spoke with?For sr 85, I spoke with the planning team and they were working with the input provided by the sr 85 pab, this is the implementation of one of the alternatives in the ten year period and it leaves funding in the program for additional improvements on the sr 85 corridor after 2032.7:36 PMOkay, thank you. there is also a comment about working with the tax and more assumptions on that. Do you have any idea what you were looking from the tac to help you with?We were prior to this working with the tac on scenarios and also some potential principles for the board to consider and evaluating scenarios, what you are looking at right now is actually one of the scenarios that the ad hoc had been considering which we were calling the everything where we laid out everything we were aware of right now to see how that would model out and there are some additional scenarios that tac would like to look at. Also within this, there is quite a bit of refinement that is needed in some of the categories that will require some pollicy discussion required of the board and will look at that consistentwith tac.7:37 PMPart of that, you look at how debt financing was associated with the project. Is that something that you will be considering down the road?I can respond to that. we have assumed, I think it's on one of the charts, overall for all the needs of the capacity of the program, we have not broken down to each overall. It is contemplated assuming this endsup being the final one which I doubt because as I said, the purpose of this is to demonstrate to fta, yes, we have the financial capacity without harming other programs. In reality, the timelines of the cash flow needs and other programs change, then that could be reduced or would be some of the other innovative financingwe talked about and the cost of financing could be considerably lower. Our principal repayment could be pushed much further to the final horizon. So there is a lot to refine. To answer your question, Mr. Mcallister, I don't want to speak to policy issues. It's up to the board. At some point if the board wishes to advance a certain project with the issues of debt there is capacity available, I can say that, but whether debt will beissued for a specific program, I will leave it up to the board.7:39 PMNuria: on the chart issued, just to bring it home, it's what we have received on part of the county and how much they hought they would need and that is the all in scenario. When we meet with the board January 22nd, we will be reviewing the all in scenario, the more realistic scenario and the which direction we will go through scenario. We are not there yet, but I wanted to be sure that everyone understood that. The all inscenario, shows that capacity and that capacity comes with a cost that is borrowing with discussions on when we borrow, how much we borrow and what type of borrowing are going to help us better explain to the board and give us an insight as to which direction you think would be best for us to proceed. There is still some work. This demonstrates there is capacity but that capacity comes at a cost and we will be goingthrough that in more detail January 22nd.7:40 PMThank you. last question, this chart was prepared or capacity was developed for fta, for getting the early money, will this chart then change, I know it's more from the numbers, but will the basic concept change when it goes to forecasting the project that goes to the board for prioritization?Yes. I mean, you know, will it change, the answer is yes. What component, again, you know, do we really need exactly $600 million in 2028 for bart phase 2. That could be less. Based on all of that, yes, it couldchange and some of the policy issues on how to allocate it to which program when those are policy issues the board will certainly have a say and the board has a right to make that determination.7:41 PMOkay, thank you. I know the numbers were going to change. I was just thinking with a broad sense. I know it's going in the right direction with nuria and her staff and marcella because we are getting more detail and will make a lot of citizens happy. Thank you for the presentation.Thank you. next on to member paul?Thank you, chair. I have three brief questions. The first one and i'm just trying to get a clarification if I understood a point provided in the presentation is the recommended idea for debt financing basically to track sort of proportionally with how the allocations are made in their original proportions between need capacity program of formula based programs as well as the bart extension or is there a different kind of mix of programs that we are thinking about in terms of this you know albeit policy director in the future to this current position of thinking of how we allocate the debt financing proportions. Is it basically, we arethinking, let's try to spread this out among all the various programs that we have defined in measure b?7:43 PMDebt issuance is need based. you issue debt only if it's in need. That is an excellent question and there is a lot of factors that go into it. For example, let's pick any one of the programs. Let's pick caltrain separation.If the project is ready to go, shovel ready, if you will, and the only constraint at that point is availability of funds for the project to proceed. #, then there are a few things for the board to consider forrecommendations. No. 1, do we have money to fund he project without inferring that. Any financial person will have to do that. If the answer to that is no, okay, we May have to issue debt. F debt has to be issued,what kind of debt at what cost? Then balance that against the inflation nd the construction cost. Let's say you delay a project by a year, at least in the current economic scenario, construction costs are going up at the higher cliff if you will than the cost of debt even a long-term debt with a long-term debt we can issue around 2%. But the construction cost inflation is higher than that. So delay of any program, it doesn't have to be ny program has a cost assuming it's ready to go and funding an example, there are multiple sources even for bart phase 2, there are multiple sources, 2016 measure b is not the only source. Let's say 2016measure b provides, again, i'm adjusting # making this up. Overall 10% and all the funding is in place and the project is shovel ready from every source and the only funding you need is from measure b and what isappropriate and would be the staff's recommendation and it would be up to the oard if you want to adopt that as a policy.7:45 PMSo that is open or any of these budgets, any capacities, formula base, whatever in measure b, just depending on the various factors that might affect a real project at any given point in time is what i'mhearing.7:46 PMYes, subject to of course it's a board prerogative subject to that.Okay. great. I apologize for the second question. My connection blipped out for a moment and you might have come back to it already. But I had a question about the allocations when it came to sr 85. I thinkwhat you might have been answering how they might have been recommended according to the pap, my question had to do with the year 2027 because I noticed the allocation jumps up quite a bit in that year from 11. 3 the prior year to $100. 9 million. What were you thinking for the project.7:47 PMThat would be the year the major construction contract is issued. Based upon a normal year and phase and design, right-of-way, if that's necessary and then construction, the big expenses are usually inconstruction. You see the various peak and it tapers down.7:48 PMThat is essentially a primarily a one project program, although there are other efforts going in there be on the program.And on the policy and trying to prioritize policies within programs, would there be a possibility prior to getting the policy evaluation on it to run details like this such as how we prioritize projects within programs through the tac since they are the technical people that represent our respective jurisdiction in addition torequesting projects in addition to programs.Typically staff recommends does take all of those into consideration. Whenever we recommended something to the board, to be clear, this is a commission item and I have mentioned this a few times. Ofthis is to democrnstrate to fta that we have the financial capacity. We want to stress the model because fta will ask us all this. What if you have the ability the fund it, are you still able to fund bart phase 2. And that's why we have the model, yes, all of that can be done and we still have the financial capacity to deliver bart phase 2. Reality could be something definitely could be different and definitely for policy issues and one of the things that got missed ut with one of these slides we talked about with all of this, we have a billion left to allocate which the board can allocate based on need and policy considerations and so forth.Not every penny is being allocated in this but we have the model if we can still do it and the answer is yes and we should be able to do it with this and we still have this left over.7:50 PMThank you very much. those are my questions.Thank you. member liccardo.Thank you for taking the time to talk with me earlier today about the spreadsheet and other elements of this. Can you help me understand to what extend the tac has already provided a clear guidance aboutproject readiness to what extent that informs the numbers going in here where there is a broadassumption being used about which highway project and which separation and so forth.7:51 PMI will answer part of the question hen turn it to marcella. For example, the program, if first phase, localstreets. So there is nothing there. And hghways, which you mentioned, those projects are being handled by vta staff and they have given their cash flow needs for that and bart phase 2 came from our program the other ones, let me turn it over to marcella.7:52 PMOn the projects pogram, that is not the projects by the vta but also includes the city projects. And where these numbers come from are the programs that the vta is already working on. The highway one is an interesting one because based on the needs they have provided us so far we have maxed out the program in 2027 and these are for all phases for delivery. So back to your original question, the tac, ad hoc has talked about applying the delivery screens but we have just begun that discussion and not applied to these estimates. That's true for many of the other programs as well. We took the information we were given, we did not pply any screens such as this is in construction therefore we will put it in this chart and this is in preconstruction and we won't and we simply took the needs as supplied.7:53 PMGot it. given what we know about highways and land, this is a pretty aggressive schedule compared to what we think reality is going to be for these projects, isn't that a fair issue?In some cases, yes.7:54 PMOkay. i'm looking for example, in the counter, i'm looking at the express ways and I don't see a lot there and it seems to suggest o me is it something that lawrence expressway is not going to be shovel ready for many years?That is correct. the first five years were supplied by the county, and they did some detail work on that. In the remaining years, there is still more work on, but they did some in-house estimates about what it wouldtake to get to the lawrence expressway funded through design. That's what you are seeing from 27 on toconstruction is hanging on just outside of the ten year period.Okay, that's helpful, thank you.7:55 PMRaj, with regard o tifia and the eligibility for that, I know we have used it before, but how confident can we be at a tifia would be available to us. For example for bart or for grade or anything else?For bart, definitely, more than reasonably confident it would be available if it's used for many such projects then it will be for the more recent examples than the field is used, so definitely available.Back on the envelope which I know it's dangerous to talk about in a public meeting, but the estimate was about $683 million in total interest for the life of the bond, how much does tifia really knockout of that roughly?7:56 PMQuite a bit. again, I start throwing numbers out.Again, you are leaving in a few days.Yeah.Excuse me, raj, you know, this is one step in how we are looking at this. We are going to be looking at this at the January workshop and potentially in future board meetings. If might be better to ask that to take that as a question and maybe try to come back with numbers because I think we want to be careful about setting expectations and just coming up with something off the fly.Yeah, I understand. I was just looking to see if there was a range or broad estimate. I'm certainly interest.If that's not possible, understand.Nuria.. I think it would be best if we bring back more information as part of the deliberations at the workshop and subsequent meetings engine that even the tifia which is part of the authorization expired and we are waiting for the new authorization to come up with more money in it with more rules. If you can just indulge us and give us an opportunity to think this through.7:57 PMIt would be great to see this on the 22. What it appears to be based on what I have heard is largely a wish list that is assembled to demonstrate capacity and there is some implicit policy choices and decisions haven't been made yet for example if we want to incur $700 million of interest cost that we are sending the new york bond holders on wall street better than serving on projects and residents. I think it'simportant that we don't cling too tightly o what's here and that, you know, I appreciate the need to demonstrate what we need to fta o demonstrate capacity and this probably demonstrates some of the local hand waving is probably a lot. I think it's important for the board to carefully evaluate the trade off so it meets the needs around getting projects done as well as satisfies our basic principles around financial, around good use of tax dollars. So anyway, I appreciate the effort, but i'm a little concerned that thisdocument gets clung to in the same way that the spreadsheet became a focus of attention three months ago and in either case needs to be complete and vetted and more policies need to be made. I will leave it at that.7:59 PMThank you. I want to add a couple comments in here that I think this discussion has really highlighted that there is some policy decisions or things we need to go ahead and get resolved and especially as it relates to to understand better as to how we look at project readiness and what we need to get flushed out much sooner rather than later for how we are going to move forward. Also it's pointed out that there is a lot of information that we expect to discuss at the January 22nd workshop. I hope board members have that on your alendar so everybody can e present for that. And this is a capacity to show what that balance ofcapacity can look like and this is a process to get a better understanding and get ourselves on a better track for everybody to be able to understand the possibility of what he is happened here. I think vta got off on the wrong foot with the infamous spreadsheet that came out and got more information and trying to get more detailed information about what's going on. Do you guys still have your hands up? I'm going to take that as a no. Does anyone else have any other questions?8:01 PMI just wanted to add to one of the public speakers about the 2000 measure a. Nate, i'm assuming you are still on.I am. let me get off mute.The question I had, when you take on the model, you know you took the measure a and specifically the debt service and made sure you have allocated allocated for those expenditures to be made and then looked at what is available to fund bart phase 2.8:02 PMThat's correct. our approach is always to pay the debt service outstanding first because that's vta's firstobligation to pay the debt for those and the revenue streams to pay for the project. We did that both for measure 2016 measure b contribution to the bsp, bart phase 2 project which is similar for both to pay for debt service first and then other projects that can go to that program.8:03 PMOne other thing, yes, thank you for that. He second question, same on that. Beside debt service, you have also taken into consideration some of the expenditures that have been coveted to for such as we do use a fair portion for transit operations and you make sure you are vailable for all of those?Correct and which are for transit operations aid for on an annual basis and the other formula programs like bike pedestrian and local roads come off the top and you figure out what's available for those.8:04 PMThank you. one last point that whether it be 72. 0 funded. That is top 20th percentile for the country. If you look at some of these long-term obligations, pensions, opeb, a healthcare cost. Vta's in a much bettershape compared to its peers. On the opeb front, maybe I did not or have not spoken enough on that, we are funded at 120% of our obligations. In other words, we are over funded on that. I do not know of any agency that's over funding at that level ono opeb which is phenomenal. We can whether this type of a recession at least 2 or 3 times before we go to below 90% if you will. All of the things that are being equal.Opeb, is very well funded. It's in a special trust 115 trust that cannot be used for any purpose other than for paying the opeb liabilities. Overall financially, I think people look at one small draw perhaps a certain miss of- informed conclusion. I wanted to make sure the board and the public too gets a thoroughinformation on those pieces. Thank you.8:05 PMOkay, thank you, this is an information item. We don't need any motion here. I'm looking forward to on going discussions and more detail about what's happening and that's in the plan from staff to keep going on that. The last item we have is 7. 4. Information item - receive a presentation regarding the trust in transit survey. And lead us through this.8:06 PMSorry about that. going to the future, i'm going back to the present. We have done a transit survey andeveryone is aware of on the board, this has been a difficult time especially the board and everybody else and what we are trying to do even in this difficult environment is to try to find out what works and whatdoesn't. We are looking at policies and procedures and to ensure to our customers that public transit is safe and a good form of mobility. So we did this internally. We did not go outside for a change but wedecided to do this internally, our marketing communications customer service group looked at riding and non-riding community to look at lans and how these might change over time. The survey was launched in November of 2019 and through November 30th. And we asked a number of open-ended questions to get information on what might entice them to run more and they were identified as current riders, new riders and former riders and they answered 6-9 questions. Surveys were distributed through all the channels.The most effective happens to be our wifi sign in page. We received a large number of responses by thetransit app on social media. As you can see here, over 1600 people responded to the survey p and just a lot of us have been involved in polling surveys in our other lives. Just to give you an accepts, recently after the american transit association did a survey on transit attitudes and out of 4,000 responses, we got 1600responses so we did a good job on getting a reasonable response on his survey. About two-thirds of our current riders indicated that they ride the same amount or more now compared to before covid-19. Almost 25% indicated they ride more and there was only a small percentage who said they ride less. So why the change? If the respondent indicated a change, they were asked why. These fell into these categories. 75% which are factors which are not in vta's control and for example the change to work from home, schools were closed and working from home, job loss. Other answers are more in the personal category, although 17% stated that operations which vta does control was the factor anging from buses being too full or notup to cleanliness standards. So what factors in your decisions to ride, these factors were not in the same order. If each of these factors. These were the top factors and cleanliness being the factor and followingdistancing. Responders also chose from preselected list of factors as to whether any of the options would prompt them to ride more. This is critical. More frequency was at the top of the list followed by realtime crowding information which vta began offering in early October via our transit an and cleanliness of vehicles and informed policies. Why did people stop riding, the biggest biggest was fear of covid, working from home, or car commuting was better and more widespread because it was less congestion on roadways. Other reasons, why riders stopped riding. They were asked, these were non-riders. They were asked the number one reason why they do not currently ride vta, the responses could be divided into the following ranking here. Two which are less than our control in regards to safety. It does indicate what is most important to those who have a choice or a non-transit to transit ride erse # -- riders in order to ridevta. It appears that vta is responsive to riders alike. Current riders appear to want enhanced cleanliness, and -- to recapture former riders, we should focus on high rider service and more crowded roots. This is the key to building more trust and reliability goal for vta. Vta is safe and clean, continued emphasis oncleanliness and vehicles and other assets, the clear messages were committed to safety by doing our part.I'm sure the existing members know, each vta vehicle has masks on board for distribution to riders as wellas hand sanitizers. Our current markets are aimed at thanking riders for taking transit and highlighting thisdetermination for continued patronage. This feedback has been incredibly valuable because not only is this poll internally consistent with the feedback that we've gotten, it also alliance very closely with thepresumptions that we had when we instituted the activities that we've started on. We believe that this is a good methodology for further keeping in touch with our customers and truly understanding the customers and I ant to thank my team for putting this together in the timeframe they did and the quality they got and the results that we have. With that, I believe available to answer questions.8:14 PMThank you very much for the information and for the great work by your team. I'm going to open it up to public comment now. Public speaker: hi, thank you. I have been impressed through this covid period of our life how much vta can offer kind of a community morale for the whole county. I'm a real strong believer that there shouldn't be less fares and it could be an honor pay basis, and the fact that you've created a bus roll out plans and the ideas of being just more open and transparent with the public and learning how to do that and sharing your budget plans and things like that. Think those are the factors that really help tocontribute a lot to good practices and better time to work with this time of covid and will be a good way of thinking as we come out of this era of covid. Thanks, good luck in your work. Thank you.8:15 PMOkay, thank you. i'm not seeing any other speakers raise their hand so i'm going to close public comment and come back to my colleagues. Do my colleagues have any questions or thoughts?8:16 PMMember constantine.Thank you. can you talk about how the survey is user informing the survey going forward?Thank you for the question. this is something we share with the operations department, ith the transit operations department and I do have to say that our friends and operations planning were very happy to hear that what they thought was working was what they wanted to see. We publicized this and alsointernalized it for the persons out on the road that are cleaning the buses and providing the masks know this is important.Great, thank you.Thank you.I'm not seeing any other colleagues raising their hands. I think this is great information because it gives you real automated realtime information for buses for people and we know whereby leaving people on the oad and this is a great service to customers. We are now moving to item 8. The general manager's report.Nuria, you have awesome information to share with us.8:17 PMI have three items to cover and my other members will share the last ones. As you know with this situationwith covid in california, we are continuing to follow the public guidelines and the governors orders, as you know the feedback getting from customers is very important and ensuring that people understand that we are going to continue delivering in that service and do everything we can to ensure that all of those who need to get to their destination will have a bus or rail that can get them there. So top of mind of course with this pandemic is for many of us in customer phasing roles is a question of when we are gettingvaccinated. I'm going to cover updates on covid and what we are doing with vta nd the discussion with the task force. I think this is a ood opportunity for me to amplify the message that from county executive jeff smith that reminds me that covid vaccine has arrived for those that are eligible under tier 1 which isresidents of long-term care facilities and this is a question that i'm getting. The next phase 1b is forefrontline workers and transit personnel and persons 75 years or older and 1c after that. In the meantime, we are going to continue to follow all safety protocols for covid-19 not only at our work site but of course on our system because that's where we are moving people and we want the trust of the public to continue to rebuild our ridership. Let me share with you the plan that my team and I have come up with because we don't know when the 1b is going to kick in, but we do know that it will be in the next maybe weeks or months, we want to have a plan. That plan pretty much lays out what we believe is the best way of application through three tiers. The first tier will be for our frontline employees with the general public on a daily basis for our but opera# -- bus operators and janitors and tier two, all of our yards and shops for our mechanics, line workers and substation maintainors and others. Tier 2 includes employees who are also 65 years or older and those that have preexisting conditions and tier 3, all administrative staff. There is 120 plus employees at vta. If there is over 120 plus available for us, we'll all get vaccinated. I don't know thatit's going to happen. We want to make sure we have a plan that is with our collective bargainingagreement # -- units and want to give you an overview to what our thinking is and how we are going to be getting that rolled out once the vaccine is ready for phase 1b. Relates to the continued shelter in place, the capacity, the icu capacity is what has been. So I don't think we are going to hear anything different but just to assure everyone that with the county stay-at-home orders still in effect, the employees at vta are working from home and whom we have encouraged to work from home will continue to do so and we will stay in touch with the county and advise all of our employees if anything were to change. E continue to be an essential service so light rail, bus, paratransit will continue to operate and will continue monitoring as well as many of you have been doing your monitoring in your own cities. I want to take this opportunity to thank our 2020 board chair 3 supervisor board chair cindy chavez and our atu leaders together they have allowed for mobile sites for covid testing at all of our divisions started December 2nd and ended December 29th. We are hoping to continue this testing periodically to ensure all of our employees rare healthy untilall have a chance to get vaccinated. Just want to men what we have experienced here. We have 107 active employees test positive from the beginning of the pandemic. 32 of those employees remain isolated, 75 are no longer isolated. And we have four active contractors that tested positive and all four contractors are no longer isolated. The next slide is as you all May know, california passed the sweeping legislation thatimposes new reporting requirements or employers regard covid-19 cases in the workplace, assembly bill that required us to notify employees that were potentially exposed at a work site and benefits and safetymeasures that we have taken at the work site in responses. Vta has sent vta notices to all employees when a positive case to the agencies were reported and a notice sent to employees on any work site when more than 4% employees test possess in any work period which is in conformance with osha guidelines. Because we went through handful of employees testing positive to s you have seen in the growing numbers, I have created what i'm calling the vta covid response team. That is this slide. And and the covid response team isresponsible for individuals that are dedicated in each of ur divisions who are the go to people who are employees to ask questions because we have had a lot of questions and we do have a hotline and in order to be more responsive and to be able to give more realtime information we thought this layout would be more effective. Individuals will report to their employers, their supervisor, their supervisors goes to thesego to individuals. I have designated our chief administrator officer to head up to response teams and he will over see the covid-19 working group and the administrative team as you can note on the chart the working group includes the departments of safety, human resources, risk management and operations and each of the divisions, our bus divisions, shall be I can't and north and then the guadalupe divisions and the operations control center will have those designated to be the point person but actually connecting with hr in a manner that can provide a faster response and much more efficient because it's such a sensitive issue that needs to be dealt with not only realtime but as soon as possible and as soon as the individuals have been either notified or they are not feeling well and asked to be tested. Another law that was passedeffective January of this year is the training for human trafficking awareness. It's ab 2034 which was authored by san jose assembly member, a former member of this board, a former chair. It requires all public transit agencies, the trains frontline workers in case they see any human trafficking and this was followed after the training program which we implemented in 2015. Then governor brown assigned it intoallow in 2019 and the law gave the updates up to this January to train all of our existing employees. So what have we been doing since then? We make sure that any new employees as part of their new employer orientation on boarding, receive the training on human trafficking and we also uploaded the training online onto our intranet, our internal hub website for all of our employees so they can take a refresher on the human trafficking. So we have it available at all times and making sure that newemployees, it's also a training for our bus and rail operators as part of their certification, the mandatory annual certification. So that is my update on covid and human trafficking. Now i'm going to ask scott hayward who is our deputy director of transit planning and capital 3 development to give you all a report on the blue ribbon transit recovery task force mtc's blue ribbon task force and this new egional transitcoordination with the response and recovery.8:28 PMThanks, nuria, good evening, everyone. The presentation i'm giving tonight was developed by the transit agencies in the area to inform all of our boards as to what nuria was saying on the efforts of the blue ribbon task force. We have customized this a little bit for vta. Quickly, here is an overview of the presentation today. Under transit coordination, i'm going to be talking about some of our shared goals and on going efforts that we have. Under governance, I will be talking about the blue ribbon task force and as well as what we are working on and the transit agencies as well as funding and under network management concepts we'll provide an overview of the different management option we are looking at.First of all, the transit agencies have developed shared goals and they are listed on the screen here. The first one is to restore various interest in ridership due to the massive reductions in passengers that wehave as a result of the covid pandemic. We are also looking at the overall functions of the transit system to create a regional network and create a more class network to be used by all customers throughout the bayarea and want to be sure that transit is accessible to everybody and finally want to ensure that there is theimprovement of regional connections and strategies for the service we provided. We have experienced anunprecedented level and we have regular meetings that involve multiple disciplines throughout our four agencies and the managers now meet on weekly basis to discuss policy and regional issues and to meet and discuss operations, planning, finance, communications, outreach as well as a legislative community and practices including recovery strategies for the pandemic of public outreach as well as social distancing requirements. We are also developing social common principals to be applied throughout the regions and we have regional efforts through mtc and focusing on a long range planning as well where we arepreparing for a post pandemic world. And how transit fits into that. So what are we doing specifically. On the screen you see five different items which is a little bit difficult to read as the words are broken up a little bit there. I will like to talk about the five on going efforts we have. The first one is coordinated upcoming schedule changes. They are made approximately 2-4 times a year. When one agency makes anychanges to their schedules, it could have a rippling affect to transferance. To address this, transit agencies have established regular coordinating meetings to discuss changes and we are working with ourneighboring agencies to ensure that we have coordinated schedules. A second map is mapping regional hubs and transit agencies have created a map and focusing on these hubs which are priority transfer points or data where passengers are transferring between systems and not only perceptions, so it's very data driven. This map of key hubs represents the ones that we'll be focusing on as a region. The in depth studies we are taking a deep dive into a single station. The study is starting from the passengerexperience. We are looking at all aspects from that station. From when they get off the bus and train to scheduling with different providers to improve the passenger experience. We selected the bart stationbecause of the usage. We will move forward with additional studies. The fourth area is an area still being developed by the service team and asking the question are the technology tools available to allow us to use big data and help us better understand scheduling issues. Mtc has developed an initial tool we'll be exploring and working with in a couple months. Finally, the calendars, as I mentioned a moment ago, transit gencies for the service and the dates and changes as part of the bargaining agreement that wehave ith our unions. These dates vary from operator to operator and we are working to establish dates throughout the region and would allow to coordinate schedules and result in predictable schedule changesfor the passengers as well. Now that we have talked about the transit agencies since be the pandemic. We will talk about the blue ribbon task force that was established in May of 2020, they do include nine managers including nuria. It was initially formed to recommend the distribution of cares act funding and that has been completed. So the second thing that they are moving into now is the creation of a bay areatransit transformation action plan and they are helping to better coordinate everyone for better opportunities for passengers. They will recognize critical recovery challenges, identify near term action,advance equity and integrate state transit initiatives. So as the blue ribbon task force considers the action plan, one key component they are looking at is governance and how it relates between transit agenciesand we have transit agency characteristics and commonalities and transit agencies to deliver transitoperations and capital projects as defined in this legislation. They set fares and budgets and schedules that will be provided. They are an eligible recipient for funding for county local and regional state and local sources and oftentimes to specific jurisdictions with specific requirements. To get more specific with vta, they have established with legislation and we have the authority to place this funding on the ballot and the other management agency as well. Moving along, mtc also coordinate transit that is a - long history of legislation that goes back o the 1970s. Most recently it was included in the resolution 3856 which containsrequirements for the transit coordination and fares coordination and regional transformation that Mayinfluence by withholding funding when things aren't being done correctly which would work against the goal of having a more connected system and ridership. This color of full slide demonstrates funding and how various agencies are funded throughout the bay area. And if you look at the far right, you will see those boxes and referencing different unding sources and the bottom are different transit agencies and this is how different each transit agency is funded. For example vta is the third from the left, you will notice much of our funding comes from sales tax, the gray box with the smaller amount from fare box and the next one bart is a different situation where they receive some sales tax but they receive mostly their funding from fares. This demonstrates that impact to any one funding stream has an impact to deliver service. So as the blue ribbon task force moves forward, they are discussing what organizational structure would be the most effective in creating regional coordination. The bar you see, the orange and green bardemonstrates where authority lies with local being on the far left and regional authority on the far right.The three circle represent three organizational approaches from coordination to what we are doing now to an idea about federation or executive board to formalize it to new authority on the far right to be the regional nature. This is what they would be looking at to service and fares and branded in funding. Very quickly, the coordination is pretty much what we are doing today where we work together as among the transit agencies and the local agency. That would be to formalize the process in coordination and havemeetings open to the ublic for discussion and the board to retain their decision authority. A new authority which will be regional in nature would formalize the process of coordination to be open to the public but given to new individual agency boards for implementation. So the critical questions that were being askedat the blue ribbon task force is what balances and decision making authority. This is an idea of what thetransit agencies have put out for consideration to think about, what this would formealize the coordination of what we are doing to achieve action items and take advantage of the existing govern structures andensure these opportunities and the challenges and also opportunities to improve customer experience and improve efficiency as well and there are a lot of challenges to improve funding and we are looking for ideas to have more regional services and to do that would cost money and to do it well would cost additional funds. If we don't have access for additional funding, that would have to come at the expense of our local service. We really need to identify additional funding to continue to provide the local service that we do.Some f the other challenges are listed on there in terms of fares and funding structure as you just saw from the funding chart or fares and how they impact agencies differently. This is the next steps for the blue ribbon task force will continue to work on their work, developing a rob statement and look at the network management concepts that we just talked with. I want to notice assembly member chiu has created newproposal for a legislative agency nd would inform any legislative information they May have. With that, this concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.8:42 PMDo you have anything to addWas going to say that the government affairs report is in the folder on the online packet. With that, that concludes the general manager's report. I'm happy to take questions on any of the items.8:43 PMBefore he questions, I will go to public comment. Public speaker: I would like to schedule some time to discuss this more. There are a number of transit riders interested in this topic and would love to have the further item when there is more time to discuss and digest. Secondly in terms of funding, strongly more funding would be needed to achieve a more coordinated system and to have a structure to do that could be a prerequisite for funding. Public speaker: roland.8:44 PMThank you. that was really a great presentation. I wrote to the board, mtc in December that has to do with this surplus and how we can start to offer caltrain service. Challenges, we have to stop them from governing council # -- gouging us. The other one is from union pacific. If you on't know how to negotiate with union pacific. Think again. Lastly. On the side of the colors, faster, we have already paid for faster and this is not going to work.8:45 PMPublic speaker: blair? Hi, thank you, as ucomfortable as covid-19 can be for us, incredibl incredibly uncomfortable it can be, there are issues of, i'm very much in favor of an honor system for fares and groups like the atu and the ideas of a cleaning service how you clean your buses, a schedule for cleaning your buses, sharing that with the public for what that schedule can be, that's important work to learn how to do and atu is good at that, perhaps you can talk more about that in the future and -- public speaker: ian.8:46 PMGood evening, i'm the director of the policy group and I would like to thank you for the information. The information endorsed by the city's association of santa clara county. We look forward to the options for network management to be explored further and would ask that urge you to ensure that as the networkmanagement alternatives are explored that all options that improve service for riders be considered. We know new funding is needed and it's important we identify the most ffecti needs of funding of our transit system to have the best possible outcomes for riders.8:47 PMEugene you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: good evening, board members, this is eugeneonce again. I echo the comments of many of the prior speakers. It's just frustrating as a rider come from new jersey where we are pretty much an integrated transit system and coming to the bay area especially silicon valley here everyone has its own transit system. It's time that this bay area have a more seamless transit service for everybody. I agree it shouldn't take a global pandemic to where you are actually cleaning your buses and trains. You need to do a better job for how often the buses are cleaned because that will improve transit for everybody. Let's work on getting this stuff integrated for everybody. Thank you.8:49 PM> hayden? public speaker: hello, I just wanted to say I really support the eamless bay area principles as we look at regional fare and schedule integration for something that -- somebody that has to use the trains in the bay area and it's frustrating that it takes a pandemic to finally have good cleaning measures nboard. But the cleaning seems to be actually very decent now that is the pandemic, so there is that.Hopefully there will be better coordination soon. Thank you.Okay. I think that was the last of our public speakers. So I will close with that. Are there any other comments to address to nuria? Nuria, thank you very much for all of your information.8:50 PMWe are moving on to the chairperson's report. This is my opportunity to go ahead and share some information with everyone. So the very first thing I would like to do is thank all the 2020 board members and staff. 2020 has been a very interesting year and we have all managed during a very difficult time. I want to rethank former chair cindy chavez for her leadership on the board. She was extremely generous in eing able to include me as a vice-chair in many of the discussions and things and I take that as a goodthing to do and I have already told our new vice-chair in going forward with 2021. I want to welcome all of our new board members. It's really exciting to have you here. For those who haven't counted yet, there are six new county board members and three alternates. I also want to take the time to thank and highlight our vta employees. It's our valued vta employees that deserve this. I want to let you know that we are proud of the work that you have done last year and in 2021. You have excelled during the worse of times. 2020 is now in our rear view mirror and it's going to be just as hard as last year. I will tell you what we need to focus on this next year. We need to continue reliable service and not only will we need to be with faces covered ut also have transit drivers with vaccine and we need to focus on funding andoperational sustainability. We are currently budgeting for fiscal year 2022 and 2023 and could face a deficit and without the funding we received for cares act in 2020, we would be operating in the red. We need toreturn to our prepandemic levels. Hiring another officer will be key for providing this service. We into owed to clarify the measure b spending plan. It was evident by the discussions that took place by last years member and the public and we need to prioritize projects within two year budget cycles with the financial forecast change we will rely on hat information to provide the greater good and we need a policy information to go with this. We need to update or business plan as the current strategic plan to outline be the strategies for our transit goals for process and allocation of resources. My goal is to make significant progress on this item, at least 85% this year in its development. In summary, I know we have achallenging year in front of us, but I see positive things ahead. It is exciting to see the continuation of bart phase 2 project in santa clara. I ask my board members to come prepared to make this system better tomake this adaptable and to anticipate and respond to additional challenges both known and unknown. I don't think the covid beast is done throwing curves this year. We must remain agile and agile and flexible.My goal is that in a year from now, we can look back to see where we have left things and start better for the year. I am confident with the board that with the continued dedication of staff we can do the best thing for our riders and residents. Next I will provide information on the 218 item. This should have een put in place in the 1970s but that didn't happen. We developed a solid plan to involve a selection to put an agree in place to each of our pension plan. That collaboration between the board and staff and labor group is going strong. I really want to thank the union leadership for how they have been able to collaborate withus. We are hosting with the federal social security administrator and state social security administrator a new round of town hall meetings for January and february. The town hall will educate employees how to vote and opportunities to ask questions. That will be mailed and the election will begin February 8th and end March 9th. If and I want to say when a majority of the active employees in each pension plan vote yes, then everything will stay exactly the same and will preserve the social security benefits for those employees. I have one last thing to share with you. I feel it is important to acknowledge the attack againstdemocracy that occurred roughly 36 hours ago in washington. The attack against our freedom, our house f congress and against our constitution. Yesterday was n attack on and a siege of our seed of governmentjoined in joint session of congress to finalize election results and we should be outraged and that is the most sensible word I can use. This is as much as carried out as nine 11 to attack our gvernment.Yesterday, our constitution won, but it highlighted how fragile and how important our government is and highlighted our values of constitution and forms of government. We started this meeting tonight about swearing in new members. All of us have taken the oath to defend the constitution from all enemiesforeign and domestic. I would like to remind all of us of that oath and to remind each of us for the responsibility that we have. I didn't bring this item up tonight to have a debate about what happened and who is responsible and what action stab taken next. I just thought it was important to acknowledge that yesterday occurred that horrible terrorist attack against our country, a date I never thought would occur and a day I will never forget. A day I will never forget. Those are my comments. Is there any member ofthe public that wishes to speak. Theodore, can you ask the members of the public to speak.8:58 PMYes. blair, you May given speaking. Public speaker: hi, it was nice to hear the chair's words about what happened tonight. It really helped and thank you. I'm going to be coming rom a position that not necessarily it was a terrorist act but an act that needs to be a form of healing and I feel we can work on those healing ideas and voting rights in the next 5-10 years. Other I think we have a good starting to do that. So i'm very hopeful with the community process that we have tonight, these things can be simply discussed and worked out. So, thank you for talking about it. I have public comment written down words about this subject in public comment and thank you again for the meeting tonight and just for ourcommunity process, thanks.8:59 PMRoland, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you, ms ms. -- I appreciate you goingthere and I want to speak about myself and why i'm not an american citizen. I was actually thinking about applying for citizenship when clinton was president and then after saddam hussein hussein invaded iraq. I am not proud to be an american. Thank you.Public speaker: good evening, once again, board members, I echo the chairman's comments. I must mention that what happened yesterday, the terrorist attack also created an obvious equity issue. Had those people been a different skin color, we would have seen bloodshed unlike something never seen. It was also a racial and class matter to that which I will discuss at another time. Also there is another thing that goes on at vta, my colleagues, Mr. Hendricks, on the trail 185 and what is being used to expand that highway. We are urging you to spend that nine million to be used for those that are concerned. You should have had that letter on the endorsement. Please take action, make it happen.Okay, thank you. I think that was the last of our public speakers. To my colleagues, anyone have any thoughts they want to share. I'm not seeing any hands. We are moving to item 8. 3. 8. 3. Items of concern and referral to administrationMr. Mcallister.Yes, hank you. this goes to the board of governance and interesting to hear how scott was talking about the recent deal. Originally, the chair pointed out that we have six new members and 3 alternates and I was involved in a meeting about how someone was going to appoint someone to a position in the vta board. It going back to my premise that vta is a very important institution in the santa clara county, next tohousing, I think transportation is the number one need that is so important to getting people to their jobs and schools and so forth that we need to have a board that doesn't constantly have in and out members and we need to have consistency. This is no offense to those that have signed in today. But the board need to have a reliable solid staff of board members that will continue over time. The chair pointed out some very difficult decisions that you are going to make and you are going to have to start from the get-go tolearn what's going on because it is so important and so much that vta is involved with that it will take you two years to figure it out and hopefully you will stay on. What my concern is, what could we have done atthe ad hoc committee that potentially could have helped vta get a stabilized consistent membership. I was reading and article about san francisco where they appointed two members of the public to theirtransportation committee. And also points non-elected to their board and I was looking at the vta enabling act that says the only people that could be appointed are elected officials. I would like for all thoselistening consider adding two and modifying he membership to allow non-elected to be on the board to provide expertise, continuity and longevity and other than our great former chair cindy chavez who is aninstitutional wealth of knowledge and brings so much continuity to this board which is so important, it is possible that we need to look at another way of governance or add options to it. So I would like you tothink somewhere down he line as you think forward and all the other options to possibly propose that legislation to allow those to serve on the vta board. A quick shout out to cindy chavez. I should have donethis sooner. When she was on the board, I was the chair of the enhancement committee. Chair chavez llowed the ad hoc community to present their ideas to the full board and she was willing and open to anysuggestions that we had and I appreciate her openness, her thoughtfulness and her opportunity to allow us to speak. Thank you for that and that was something that a lot of people probably didn't realize and a lot of what we did was under her watch and we appreciate her allowing us to try to make vta board better. Myfinal note to no. 10, hopefully when the census comes out to no. 9. Thank you for allowing me to speak.Being on this board has been a huge honor that I will really cherish. And take advantage everything that this board and the staff members allow you to do and take advantage of conferences, field trips, whatever.There is so much to learn and it is so important. Thank you again and have a great time under the newchair.Okay. great. thank you, john. I see no other things on item 8. 3. 8. 4. Any announcements? Okay, that's going to tame us to item 9. Which is closed session. I want to remind my colleagues here that everyone needs to go to closed session. We have an item to take care of and we have instructions for how to do that. Before we go to closed session, evelyn, did you ant to say something to us.Yes, for item 91a related to the agreement, this is ready.Thank you.So with that, if I can have all of my board members go to your closed session room and we will see you there.This is elaine from the board office. I want to remind the board members who are attended