Santa clara valley transportation authority5:34 PMPlease stand by...This is elaine from vta, for the member of the public, we will lower your hand right now and we will let the public know when it's time to raise your hand for public comment. Thanks.5:35 PMPlease stand by...I see vice-chair jones. yes, we have a quorum. We May get started whenever you are ready.Okay.All right. good evening. ta board of directors regular meeting of thursday, September 2, 2021, is called toorder. Elaine, can we have the roll call, please.5:36 PMClerkClerk: abe-koga, blankley, burt, chavez, davis, gilmore, jimenez, lee, liccardo, montano, paul, peralez, rennie, simitian, jones, hendricks. We have a quorum, vice-chair. Thank you.Thank you.Before we move on to 1.2 orders of the day, we will adjourn tonight's meeting in memory of henry gonzalez. Henry was hired in 2012 as a paint and body worker and worked at the light rail department and he was a valued employee and cared for his coworkers and served ith them as a board member of atu local 265. Henry's funeral was held last monday. Henry left behind his wife and four children. Our sincerest condolences to his family, coworkers and all of those who knew henry. We will always remember and honor henry and the other fallen employees. At this time, I would like to ask for a moment of silence.5:38 PM( moment of silence )Thank you.For orders of the day, staff is requesting the following changes to the orders of our agenda.It is recommended to hear item 8. 1, general manager's report before the consent agenda, and also move closed session after the general manager's report. Are there any changes from my colleagues? Seeing none, May I have a motion and second to approve orders of the day?So moved.Second, constantine. > it's been moved and seconded.5:39 PMClerk: chair, I will do a roll call vte.Can we go to the members of the public as well?We have two hands up, chair.Okay, before we take the roll call vote, let's take public comments.Okay.> Mr. Roland?Thank you, Mr. Chair. good evening. And for the record, you forgot to ake public comment for the evening.The reason i'm reaching out to you is that for the sake of Mr. Henry, that you put item 1. 1 on consent because quite frankly none of us are in the mood for that kind of nonsense right now. Thank you very much.5:40 PMMr. Beakman, go ahead.I'm very confused your going into closed session after the general manager. Can you state why and when can you return to the regular meeting process and the regular agenda item today. Hopefully that's what this orders of the day public comment could be about and I hope you can answer these questions. Thank you.This is elaine from the board's office. For those who have their hand up, I would remind you that we are on orders of the day. This is not for public comment on items on the agenda. So if you are planning on addressing the board under orders of the day, please keep your hand up. If you are planning to address he board on agenda items, please lower your hand.5:41 PMPublic speaker: hi, I just want to say that I take the blue line and it hasn't been tested et and i'm a student and we pay $200 and it takes me three hours everyday. There is one way to take the bus. I want to say it'svery frustrating.Excuse me, sorry for interrupting. This is for orders of the day.I'm not sure what that is. I just want to say it's very frustrating and it takes a long time and if you can start testing, that would be great. Just wanted to get my point across because it shouldn't take three hours on the wait when the line only takes 20-30. Thank you.5:42 PMPublic speaker: thank you, paul soto. When I came when I realized the supervisor was coming to this meeting and I have to reassess my judgments of you which have been very sharp and when I heard you talk about at yesterday's meeting with respect to our sheriff.I'm srry. this is specifically for rders of the day.5:43 PMI thought it was public comment.Mr. Soto, this is elaine. we are taking public comment on orders of the day. When it is time for general public comment, you will be able to speak. Thank you for that.Member chavez?I always get confused about orders of the day and want to acknowledge that i'm also confused about this challenge. Item about the -- I would like to defer this. This is the last meeting and I have concerns about the contract. I didn't know if it was possible to defer it or not. I wanted to ask staff about that.5:44 PMThank you. staff?I'm going to ask angelique to address that.Thank you, member chavez. as the memo state, we have a current extension of the existing contract and it expires at the end of this month. So the recommendeded action would allow us to enter into a new contract beginning October 1st, which is before the next board meeting. We got caught in betweencommittee meetings that did not occur, so we were not able to bring this to committee, but we have members of allied universal on the line to answer any questions you might have.I see because the next meeting would be October 7th and the contract is October 1st. The challenge with that is that one, I totally appreciate that we've had a really rough time. It's just hard to vote on something that I then can't do research on. So, I will leave it on the agenda, but i'm concerned about the process.Thank you, I have no changes to the orders of the day.5:45 PMThank you. elain! Elaine, can we have a roll call vote, please.5:46 PM[roll call]The item passes.Next item.2. Awards and commendation retirement commendation recognizing carlos ramirez, coach operator, for 35years of service; kevin taylor, bus dispatcher, for 34 years of service; tomas oppus, electronic technician, for 31 years of service; and greg orzel, facilities worker, for 31 years of service. Our retirees are not able tojoining us tonight but would like to thank them for their dedication and service to the vta. We wish them well in their retirement. Elaine, do we have any hands that are raised for public comment?5:47 PMI believe that is at the next item. Item 3 is public comment for items not on the agenda. I would remind those who want to address the board under public comment. Please raise your hand in the app or if you are on the phone, please press star 9. This is to address the board for any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to one minute. The law does not permit board action or extendeddiscussion of any item not on the agenda except under special circumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing.5:48 PMWe will now start with public comment.Please call the public speakers.Yes, Mr. Chair, before I proceed in calling the attendees, let me inform the committee that public commenthas been received and has been listed on the website. Calling on the three listed to speak. Paul and then rosie. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: okay, there was an assumption that was made. I want to speak on those drivers. That's 131 years of experience that I did not want to leaveunnoticed. I never owned a car in my life. I'm ust talking about the process. The woman made an assumption that my hand was raised for another item and it was not. I'm going to let that slide. But this is the way that you that have power constantly, erode democracy. It just -- it's all I have got to say. Bees, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: can you hear me?5:49 PMYes.I'm here to bring awareness to the customer service department. We have a new manager that absolutely does not have in tonation with the staff. In the first month of employment, three vta members left. The manager has not poken a single word to me in the last nine months. That's right. I have not been provided any mentoring from a person who is supposed to be a eader within the department. Vta is not a family.See something, say something. Well, i'm here speaking out just like many others have done bringingawareness to this issue and the culture within vta, it's time for this company to do something about it. I ask that you do something for those being wept under the carpet.5:51 PMRosie, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I am calling for the retro hazard pay.My name is rosie from local 265, i'm with customer service. We too along with our brothers and sisters that are on the road have helped this community. Ost of the people that work at home or on admin leave, we come in and assist vta by e-mail and by phone and customer service facing firsthand people who come in to ride vta, not only vta but caltrain and along with other agencies along he bay area. The customer service, our department has been exposed a couple times with the virus of covid-19. The downtown center for the most part because of fare inspectors have had to deal with it as well. We stand --5:52 PMThank you. before we go to the next speaker, I want to notify everyone that we are going to have the last call to address the board. We will no longer take request to speak on this item after alicia.Thank you. please begin speaking when you are rady. Public speaker: hello, i'm with local at 265. I'm speaking for the hazard pay and we have and have been in harms way since the beginning of the pandemic. We ask the person to put their mask on and last week a girl wanted to punch someone in the face. We have people coughing on us and pulling guns. Our safety and our health need to be foremost. Iwould like someone on the board to please consider a motion to have the general manager sit down with union leadership to discuss retro active pay.5:54 PMPublic speaker: good evening. In addition to having hazard pay, thank you. I have already given my feeling for how this recover since the horror of May 6 has gone unmute, we have shown the world how not to recover from a terrible tragedy. As someone who studies a transit system, I personally survived and was two stops from the world trade center. We must do better. I learned at the July 14 mtc planning meetingthat you were to have more resilient public comment. Let's make that happen. Public speaker: i'm speaking regarding hazard pay. Obviously there is a problem when we are having a zoom meeting when we are meeting face-to-face and asked to be driving out there everyday, those on the bus, no mask, no ride, we are asked not 3 to enforce it and when we call, it gives the sheriff's 15 minutes to show up.Handle it board. That's what you are there for. Thank you.5:55 PMNext speakers are being man, armando and michael. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, thank you. I'm still hoping someone can describe why exactly you are going into closed session after consent and what time can we expect you back to talk about the regular agenda so I can planmy evening accordingly and well and part of the process. Thank you. To try to return to some regularideas, i'm still very upset and worried about the 40 plus shots fired at the bay area club. And please be considering these things and thank you to roland who spoke at public comment somewhere in san jose, south bay a few days ago about the future of high-speed rail and he talked about what to expect abouthigh-speed rail.5:56 PMFernando, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, can you hear me?5:57 PMYes, we can.Hi, armando. on behalf of atu local 265 in support of retro hazard pay. We are not going anywhere. We are still here and will continue to be present and continue to fight for those that are out there right now serving this committee who can't speak. As someone who is not here to share her word, i'm here to speak for her. At the height of this pandemic while I show up to serve in this county, I was placed in hazardous situations, the patron struggled to keep her mask on and coughed. Public speaker: i'm a bus operator for 265. I think the board needs to highly consider our retroactive pay. At the moment we are not thought of as we et on the bus as someone else. We are just thought of that gets them when they are to where they are going. Many people have lost their lives and will continue to lose their lives to this virus. Not thinking and not considering our hazard pay, you are not we are put on the line and that we May I continue the line. Thank you.5:58 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: eric.5:59 PMGood evening to the board and all attendees. My name is eric chavez, a proud member of local atu 265, as for this pandemic and we are already deemed doing sensitive jobs and epa that were hazardous. As this pandemic ravished our community and the world, bus drivers, mechanics, and frontline workers put theirlives on the line everyday not knowing if they would contract and take home cvid. Bay area transit industrydeserves to be compensated for their sacrifices. Good evening and thank you very much for your time.Public speaker: standing in solidarity with my brothers and sisters atu 265. I'm going to say a lot of things.Interacting with the public is hazardous. If it wasn't hazardous, this meeting would be face-to-face, this meeting would be in person. You would be interacting with the public in person. So obviously you know that the job we do as operators, dispatchers, service workers, you know it's hazardous. There is no question as to whether or not my brothers and sisters deserve hazardous pay. We are simply asking you todo the right thing and direct management to sit down with the union and to give my brothers and sisters what they deserve. You know it, the public knows it, we all know it. Let's just get it done. Thank you.6:00 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hi, can you hear me?6:01 PMYes.Yes, my name is rachel. I am an operator with local 265. Before I get close to the call ending and ot get to say this, I find it very disrespectful and very rude that when an individual is making their comment that they are cutoff at exactly one minute. People should be allowed to express what they need to say. We are under so much stress. We are in danger each and every time we get behind that wheel. I am pleading and I am asking for each one of you members there to think and please put hazard pay on the next agenda. If not, if you don't think it's hazardous, please ride the bus with us and see what we deal with. Thank you.6:02 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking. Go ahead, please. Public speaker: good evening, board members, john, present atu local 265. I do support bismarck's comments and talking change is great but nothing has happened yet to be perfectly honest. Our pockets of bosses that continue to act this waytowards employee. The frontline boss in the north yard with racist comments regularly. Let's talk about this in the upcoming agenda. And this cultural change has to start here. And one minute, the jobs to thecommunity and listen to the citizens and the workers. That's your on the board. I would really really beg to be open. That's what we are here for. Thank you and have a great evening.6:03 PMThank you and let's make stephanie the last speaker.Alicia, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, good evening. Alyssa prietto here. Istand with my brothers and sisters on atu local 265. It's not entirely safe to come home and give our family this variant, this dealt variant. Who knows how much further this is going on. I believe we deservethat hazard pay. You need to talk over on how you are going to give us hazard retro pay. Thank you.6:04 PMJohnny, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: my name is johnny gallegos. From local atu 265 and I am speaking to get the retroactive hazard pay. Thank you.6:05 PMLast speaker. stephanie, you May begin when you are ready.Good evening, thank you for listening to my call. Have been an operator for 11 years for vta. I am speaking on behalf of my classmate, janelle rubio who has been here almost 11 years. I find it convenient how the media doesn't cover our hazardous situation on a daily basis. My partner has experienced a gun to her face. This should have been on the table a long time ago. Appreciate this is going to be on the agenda.I am eager to see something happen. Again, if nothing changes, we have bullying in every division.Something has to be changed. If you would consider us, that would be great.6:06 PMThat concludes public speaking.Thank you. we do not have items under 5, public hearings. There will be item 5. Committee reports. If you would like to address the board on items 5. 1 through 5. 5. Please raise your hand now and we will call you at the conclusion of the reports. There is no report for item 5. 1. For 5. 2, 5. 2. Policy advisory committee(pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore)Thank you, vice-chair. on Thursday after a robust dialogue, the board recommended a complete corridors study and the pac further addressed the staff to address these areas for bikes to super highways, reducing conflicts and fundamental landscaping and strategies and tree placement. We also recommended the board of directors approve the project priorities for the fiscal year 2021 to 22. Countywide transportation development acts article 3 program. Lastly the pac will receive an overview of the vta transit orientedcommunity development program. And this will be Thursday the 29 at 1:00 p. M. And will be a zoomconference. Thank you.6:07 PMThank you. now we are on item 5. 3. Reports for this item are on the online agenda packet. There is no report for 5. 4. For item 5. 5, 2016 measure b chair will provide the report. We will take public comments for items under committee reports items 5. 1 through 5. 5 after this report.6:08 PMChair, this is elaine from the board office. I don't see chair herrera.6:09 PMI don't see hear her, so we can move on.Okay. May we have the public speakers? Public speaker: this is blair bakeman, you can correct me if I am wrong on one of the reports. I want to offer that there has been great report on san jose and employee wages and city employees issues compensated for covid-19. I ope you can look to these examples in your work here at the vta at this time and we can work well. Thank you6:10 PMThank you. public comment is closed. At this time we will take the general manager's report and will take public comment at the conclusion of the general manager's report. Good evening, May I provide a couple of updates and wanted to 3 take the opportunity to share what i'm passionate about in my role as general manager and ceo. This is the first time I have been able to address you and we've ad a large meeting and I want to talk about them tonight. These priorities are my work values and work thick and continuing the mobility experience for all of the much of that time with vta. We here at vta are here to serve the public. If there is one thing about the pandemic taught us is that people rely on the vta and that is to provide access to the community, transit service plan in 2019 was resulted with valuabl valuable work. As we are edgingour back to prepandemic levels, we are welcoming back many to transit and we are adding to thepartnership transit options and engage partners and transit advocates to best achieve shared goals about combatting traffic congestion and fighting climate change. I'm fully committed to delivering 2016 measure b which has been entrusted to us. Vta will continue to deliver tax dollars for improvements and we have the funding and the will and the skill to improve transportation for county residents whether you walk, bikeor drive. Our regional partnerships are now more than ever critical to our bay area. We have seen this in these transit agencies during the most challenging time and will work to improve the customersexperience. We will offer bay area complete connection now that we have the two bart stations open in milpitas and san jose and will be the first in the united states for the federal transit administration on this program. As we work together, we must remain cognizant that they will be intertwined with the manychallenges that we have which will also recognize opportunities. We are not out of the woods yet with covid. Every day brings challenges that protects the health and well-being of our employees andcustomers. Another issue was the hard hitting cyberattack only to be followed by the guadalupe tragedy.To meet the goal of providing active transportation opportunity, it's necessary for me to shape and share my employee focus priorities with you tonight. My goal is to better understand the needs of our employees while working together more collaboratively to boost moral and confidence are our most important asset. I have a meeting with the employees from different corners of the organization even before my first day on-the-job at vta. And what I heard is we have a tremendous opportunity to improve the culture within ourorganization and we must improve the culture within our organization and make it collaborative and prolithic. I want to focus on vta employment development that improves the people line of our challengechallenges at the organization, whether you are an operator, a construction vest, I want our employees to feel appreciated. The employees have weathered a storm in an unfathomable way. I will also work with employees and that will take additional resources and we will work with partners to do that. Movingforward, our resilience will grow and we owe it to ourselves, the public and this is so critical to this community we have look forward as a team to be able to continue to serve our community. Now, I would like right now to say a few recent milestones and i'm going to ask staff to join me on this update. On the first slide 1, we are pleased to announce that light rail service is back on track as of august 29th. We started service at 8:00 a. M. Sunday morning and we'll explain what it took to get here, chief of security,angelique gallegos.6:16 PMThank you, carolyn.Next slide, please. this year rail safety month has a different meaning to vta as we bring it back to service online and as we realize safety first as of september, we must share what it took to bring his line back to service. This includes employee safety,Ststudent safety and employee safety, the components of that included on boarding the employees withtrauma counselors and on going training. To give you a little bit of detail of what that looked like, it's important to know that the entire time, the mental health of our employees is critical to the success ofbringing back light rail and to support our employees decision to return to work with on boarding session with trauma counselors and operational staff and other system security staff and if they were able to return. If they wanted to return, vta began the process of recertification training. The employees that were rail certified were retrained in light rail safety, light rail shop operation, main line operation and high railoperation. Training was provided using written materials, presentations, video demonstrations, written exams, practical evaluations and training on board to light rail vehicle. That practical training covered prerevenue light rail, vehicle and safety inspections, uncoupling of cars and trains and on board to light railvehicle as well as evaluations and ride checks. Trauma counselors were available the entire time while employees underwent training and will continue to be available for those employees. Counselors have been available to all employees and their families and will be there for as long as needed. From a safety perspective, there were a number of our component system that needed not only to be inspected but tested as well in various components including inspections by our track crews and every inch of the track way and power crews of the overhead system and substations to ensure that all critical apps wereidentifiable and our crew completed and passed all testing for the rail lines. Our maintenance crews continued to make inspections and will continue to do before the cars leave the yard and all stations plan for use as we continue to do that as we move on to different segments of the system system. Our operations controlling system became fully operational 24 hours seven days a week. Once the testing segments have been complete for operation, vta was able to bring our first train and this is our test trainshown here in the video. You will note that this train was first train that went out on the track and that occurred Tuesday of last week and since then, e have had a number of test trains go on various segments of the track to determine whether or not they were safe for operations. This particular train came from theyard and went to civic center south nd up north to the cisco station in north san jose. On friday, the same test was completed for the entire orange line and once no issues were identified, we began with non non-revenue trains, after those non-revenue trains were operational, we issued a letter to the general manager to begin partial revenue service on august 28th which is what you saw this past Sunday and outlined in the slide. Saturday august 27th, our general manager also reviewed our recommendation and notified that we would egin revenue service. And I will pause here to recognize that vta has been incredibly patient with us as we engaged in the inspection and things changed daily. It's a very fluid operation out there, but we do pause when we find any issues of concern nd we go over them with the c puc as needed. To date there have not been any critical or major incidents, minor things that we were able to correct along the way andallowed us to go into revenue service. So we will continue to do this for the various segments on our light rail line and we will follow the same process which is essentially austin and myself going through thedocumentation to memorialize that inspections have occurred and making a recommendation to our gm that we believe a particular segment is ready for revenue service. Once that's done, she will make adetermination and notify the c puc. S so bringing light rail service, even though we were down for several months. We will have various messages throughout the campaign with that theme. In fact, our marketing and communications team is planning blog post which you probably have already seen, social media messaging and cars in our buses a letter that we remind our students to stay safe on our tracks. We will also have a light rail train and a national organization that promotes safety around rail. Although rail safety month occurs during the month of september, vta traditionally see's that as our kickoff, ut we continue our safety messaging year around and it includes safety around our buses and our para transit as well. Thank you. This was a momentous occasion throughout our agency and it was important to get back up and itwas frustrating to many and just to see the employees and many are still grieving but it was just really, I had a lot of pride in getting the employees and I went to the other stations and you can see the customersexcited about that and great to see the people that are going to use that service. We are starting to see the ridership starting to pick up. We are providing free rail fare until we get up and running. And we'll continue to cover what we offer and we'll have the lines coming back online. Before I move away from thistopic, I do believe our vice-chair wanted to say a few words.6:25 PMThank you. I wanted to thank the team for resuming light rail service. It has not been an easy task and vta has jumped through so many hoops o get this done. I want to commend the light rail team, operators, staff, signal maintainors, employees of all levels to support this effort. I want to recognize management for working diligently and collaboratively for the safety of your service and lastly, I would like to thank the ublic for your patience as we work on this reassuming ser# -- resuming service.6:27 PMThank you. I would like to thank the board for your support in terms of being able to provide this service.Another critical mission for vta is to continue with covid testing and to provide testing. These clinics rotate every Wednesday and since we have offered n-site vaccination we have had 2100 employees get tested. I want to thank you for getting the program started at the yards and to include vaccinations. In the next slide, you will see vta's participation in the silicon valle silicon valley pride parade. Last Sunday about 40 employees and their family members marched along the buses showing their community pride.Congratulations. Goes to our vta procurement team for achievement of excellence on procurement by the national procurement organization that embrace innovation, leadership and procurement. The vta procurement team hosted two bay area diversity forums august 1st in collaboration with the valley consortium. It has 300 participants in total to identify under utilized businesses and to help increase their technical capabilities and support vta opportunities. On the next slide, you will see the over crossing ribbon cutting event that connects the west side to the milpitas transit center with one side really right next to the milpitas was instrumental and helping us work with the developer in saving that space for us to be able tohave a landing for that over crossing and the other side ends at the bart bridge. I want to thank ms.Montano and other city leaders. Lastly in my report, I want to share my great appreciation to board member cindy chavez and other members for creating a center for trauma and others experiencing violence and those who suffered this tragedy. We have support from the assembly member in advocatingthe resources needed to prioritize the health of those who suffered during this event. It is unfortunate that we are experiencing this but fortunate to have them in our corner and I want to thank them all. I'm going to have jay tyree speak about the service.6:30 PMGood evening, jay tie read. i'm going to speak on the ridership. This ridership is for ridership trends rom the start of the pandemic through august 22nd. You can see here, I will just point out a few data. In transitwe saw starting in late January and continuing through today, in fact, the data was through august 22nd.We just got another week's worth of data, if I were to add that on here, you would see even higher ridership increasing. We are now at the point that we have seen the highest ridership since the pandemic started and that didn't include any ridership from rail because the rail was shutdown. So good trends in the right direction in ridership. We'll talk about service restoration and then rail and then bus. As we mentioned that we are very happy to welcome riders and rail service. T's the entire orange line toal you alum rock and like carolyn said we are offering free service n the light rail and bus bridge. It's general frequencies and 30 minutes on weekends. If you go to the next slide, I will show you what we are working to bring online. Thenext phase we will bring the blue line. That's the last line. We'll partially restore the blue line from baypoint to children's discovery museum and will continue the green line south. At least partials in the green and blue line as well. And the same frequencies which is generally 20 minute and 30 minutes on evenings and weekends and 6:30 a. M. To midnight or 12:30 a. M. . We don't have a date for this next phase but we areworking for getting this done in days. Next looking forward, we structure our system as you probably know around sign ups. We have three sign ups a year by which we make our service changes. We have one more in 2021, that's the October sign up. But ooking forward to the next two sign ups, here is our plan for rail.Like we mentioned our focus is on restoring rail and getting that up and running and we'll continue the 20 minute service that will be operating here for full service and also focusing on restarting the hiring and retraining process for light rail operators. In february, we are planning on restoration of the 15 minute rail network, the full prepandemic service level that we'll get back to in february. So my next slide will talk about bus. This is a summary of service increases that we've implemented since my last time report in may. We restored the weekend service, the number one request from our riders and we started a new service. The vmc shuttle service in partnership with the county and the hospital and it was an excitingcelebration of the event. And we started our school routes in conjunction with the start of school service and extended some spans and hours of service for the colleges. Now looking forward, the pace of service on the bus restoration is driven by our perator hiring and training process which we've talked about several times before. So on my next slide, we have a visual of the seven hiring and training classes that we are in the middle of in 2021. So we've graduated 38 bus operators so far this year and actually we are going to class four, we'll graduate next week that will be 29 operators that we'll welcome, and we've already started class 5 in the next class because they overlap at the end. We are working to restoring full service levels. As you remember we committed to planning for that. This is how the numbers shape out. We have 841 active bus operators, 923 is the fully budgeted number. We are 82 short, those graduating next week will help and our plan here that I showed on the hiring and training classes is to get that full staff to the 923 level.If we go to the next slide. Because of the graduating class, we are happy to reintroduce full prepandemic weekday daytime service levels in that October big and huge improvement for ourg- service and does mean the return of the frequent network. If you are traveling weekday daytime, we are back to the 15 minute frequent network and planning our route to downtown san jose and when those classes graduatewe'll be able to restore the remainder of our system to the weekend service back to the prepandemic levels so we'll be back to prepandemic levels. This slideshows the days of the week and the service levels in two phases. The first in October and the final phase in february. I'm getting very close. My final slide is just a summary of the service increases since the beginning of the pandemic. You can see we are looking at the red line today at a very significant increase for the October sign up and increase for the February sign up where we'll be at the full prepandemic levels. That concludes my report.6:38 PMThank you. for the governmental affairs update, you will find a report in your packet and also the ridership and safety and security statistics. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.Thank you, carolyn. I will now take public comment for 8. 1 and 1a. Do we have any public speakers?Yes, we do. eugene? public speaker: good evening, this is eugene bradley. Great carolyn to know that youhave moved your general manager's report to the beginning because people want o know about light rail.Given that, especially for the safety of the downtown, I have written to have people have the alternate bus that we used to have instead of crowding on bus 268. As light rail is slowly being restored to the downtownarea, how will over crowding and pass ups on buses from campbell get addressed. That's my mainquestion to you.6:39 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair. This is really impressive. I had no idea thatthey had moved to milpitas. It's one mayor liccardo, how students from downtown are supposed to get to san jose state. And due to this massacre, you will see that the blue line is completely empty by northboundby the time it gets to santa clara. Good job. Thank you.6:40 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: I would like to say it is very disrespectful that the ceo is talking about how impressive it is that the light rail is back. The blue line is not functioning at all. It takes 20-30 minutes to get from the blue line -- [inaudible] it takes 3 hours to take the bus one way and it's very very frustrating especially since we pay $200 as a student as a fee and there is no answer from the calls and they don't know and they don't have any timeframe. They don't know. Are we supposed to take two hourseach way and an hour wait for the bus, what about the handicap students. It's very frustrating when she talks about how impressive it is when she doesn't talk about how frustrated the customers must beespecially when we are talking about how much the students paid for that and it's included. Public speaker: Mr. Beak man, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. Thank you very much for your time. General manager's report. Can remember worrying about the cyber package and when you were talking about the package that is a very important lesson for all of us. Here is to hoping -- and we arecontinuing our good practices into the fall. I hope you are considering the open democratic process for contract. Really check it out. It's powerful. The rail line issues, the safety issues of the electric line, I hope that's being worked on. And I think I have covered just about everything. Let's keep up really good open democratic practices that is positive to help us. Thank you.6:42 PMThat's the last speaker, Mr. Chair.I just want to address some of the comments on the blue line. You know, we had to make a decision on how we were bringing back our service. The truth is there were some additional repairs and things that weneeded to do on the southern blue line. We probably should have mentioned that it's going to take more time. I really am sorry that people have had to suffer even through those delays but we are doing everything we can with staff and we are having staffing shortages in those areas to get it back up andrunning and providing those repairs and we really do hope to get that up and running by september.6:43 PMThank you. do any of my colleagues of the board have any questions for the general manager? I don't see any hand raised. Thank you again, caroline for your report.6:44 PMThank you.To the members of the public that just joined us, we have moved items on the agenda. We will discuss items 9 a through. E. Is there any public comment on closed session?6:45 PMHere is Mr. Lebron. public speaker: thank you. This new building blanded. It's a shining white elephant. I hope you have room for your friends. That really is a wonderful partnership. A question to the chair, are you planning on using this building for 10 or 15 years. Anyway, that's month tw$0 $0. 02 for now. -- public speaker: blair beak man, with your litigation, I want to remind you that there is a new open democratic package that is happening with the future of technology and data collection. It's really interesting positivework based on ideas of pace, not war and open democracy and sustainability. It's positive helpful stuff that can really help us out with difficult times like this. I just want to remind everyone that we are looking foranswers for our future and how to better address our future. Hope these ideas can really help. If it's possible, can it please be offered by someone of the counsel here how long exactly will this meeting be andwhen will you return to the public meeting process. Thank you.6:46 PMThat concludes our public speaking.Thank you. we will now close public comment for closed session items.Board members, the closed session team link is sent to you by the board office. Please click that link and call in and we will be back as soon as we can.8:13 PMRecording was Paused8:14 PMAlso, put your zoom on mute and you can stop your video. I will see you in teams.8:15 PMAll right we are> item no. 6, on the agenda. members of the public that would lie to address the board, please press star 9 now. Is there anyone who would like o add an item on the consent agenda or pull an item from the consent agenda?8:16 PMI move approval.Second.I will now open public comment for items on consent.Can we have our public speakers?Yes, you are dealing basically with technology issues, projects. That sort of thing. A couple reminders. Theimportance of the open public policy package with vilest and technology that will be a part of all of these complete street projects, and these things are always important to consider and helpful. And develop a really interesting fall because you are talking about more factual things now and it can be of help.8:17 PMEugene, you May begin speaking.Public speaker: I want to talk about item 6. 8 related to the financial system. This is long over due. I also want to give my thanks to supervisor chavez for setting up the necessary assistance for the families. Andalso want to speak to 6. 2. Once rail is back up and running, and would like to approve 6. 2 and 6. 8.8:18 PMPublic speaker: thank you. May I say respectfully that I would recommend that you take public comment before the item. The thing I do want to talk about though is 6. 6, the complete corridor study and I will underscore corridor and study the corridor. It's basically for the drive and have. When you study a courtreporter and especially talking about this, the example I give for london, when you get on the train, you have the bike, you get on the super highway. The super highway aboard nature corridor and soon to santaclara. Thank you.8:19 PMThat completes our public speaking.8:20 PMThank you. can we do a roll call vote, please.This is for consent agenda item 6. 1 to 6. 12. [roll call]Motion passed. thank you.Thank you. that takes us to the regular agenda. The first item is 7. 1.7. 1. Action item - accept the design development framework (ddf) for the transitoriented development (tod) site located on the vta block in downtown san jose. (deferred from the august 5, 2021 board of directors meeting. ) we will provide a brief report.Thank you.So, this presentation is about the vta block and future todd, and I know this is a very large topic. So I just want to be clear starting out is what we are asking the board to do tonight is to accept the valid framework that is a vision and framework document for this side. I'm making a point because this is not a plan and not a proposal of the project and why it is asking for acceptance. At the next meeting, I will come to the board to talk about the process and development and all the issues that come from that. To reset the stage for discussion, for downtown, vta owns approximately 70% of the five acre downtown santa clara bart station and this was for construction is complete, it - will become a leverage for property for major evelopment that is invested in bart. We have been working in the past couple years in collaboration with the other for the 30% and to think about what this block would become, as for any city development, the best possible block is the entire block as a whole and alking about this, we have the potential if all theowners can work in concert to work with mixed use and by the time we finish, we have spent about a billion dollars in development and it reduces this by 20%. The challenge is to start out with how does vta as a public agency set a standard and benchmark for pud that literally leverages the bart service andmaximize vta and a plan for how to do this and also allow us to conduct in the future and offer the really most experienced developers across the country and beyond for projects of this scale. So the beginning point and why we have the image of the current parking lot to the west which is vta's property is that we think it's essential for vta to first identify and create that standard for what is world class requiring. To do that, we brought in foster and farmers and now on help stage design and what is created on the design framework which is now what we hear more about from peter that really provided vta about developers in the community about what this looks like and the elements. It's ot a planned proposal, but a guidance to address key considerations. You will see various illustrations, designs and so on but this is to set the stage for planning and design and to view proposals as they are coming in with that, I would like to turn it over to peter with really the listening of the document and giving you a brief overview of the key items and the documents and along with social media and commenting.8:24 PMThank you very much, good evening, everyone. If you can go to the next slide. As mentioned, we are experienced with working with transit development and worked at the vta block and the result of the work is a development framework document to assess future dot work on the site and this is a proposed ddfdocument. So ver the past 18 months, we have reached out to multiple out reaches to downtown andassociations and other stakeholders. We started our studies by exploring the history of the downtown area and the evolution of the site oversight and the goal is to create a downtown center and the gradual processof decentralization that followed. The ddf has also built on the valuable work that had already been done by the time we started. Which includes the community working group input and also taking on board the city of san jose's own aspiration and including massing and accessibility. From this research and analysis,we developed a series of five key design principles that are at the core of the development framework document. The first of these principles is public realm activation. At the core of this guideline at the public flaws at the center of the vta block. The plaza would act as a gateway to the bart tation as well as agathering space for the community. This is a conceptual view from the downtown station looking at the proposed plaza. Notice the configuration of the plaza is not prescribed by the ddf. The second guideline relates to the creation of pedestrian walkways or paseos which help to subdivide the parcel, improveconnectivity and make for a more pedestrian friendly environment and association and the paseo is already in the downtown and these new paseos will improve walk ability and station in the plaza. Nd there are topics to be addressed in the block. The first is the saint james park historic district which limits heights around the park and loan building in west santa clara and any future design to be massing needs to be sensitive to these historic sites and any new development doesn't overshadow these historic resources.The fourth guideline is to enhance the you surban character and enhance the station by restoring this area, all the areas will include materials to change to lighter construction. This guideline helps to integrate thenew development with the character of downtown and create more amenities bove the ground plane plain.The vta is going to align with sustainability and equity goals with new housing and stock at a range of affordability levels and development and em bodies the new carbon and new construction. After multiple studies, what we developed was the following diagram to explain how the ddf approach might apply to optimize these goals. We start on the top left with a solid block that is built up all the way to the current maximum building height in one big block. Then like a block of clay, you slowly carve away at it and carving away at the plaza at the center of the block. And no. 3, the paseo access to the block andproviding access and we create 3 the podium, setback the towers above and create the massing to allow more access to the plaza and create more building occupancy. What we arrive at is a test study with market street and st. John to more residential use. On the right, what you see is a ground floor plan of the vta block with all the buildings above sliced off which shows you all the different buildings, the paseos and the proposed plaza at the center as well as the bart station. The test meets the cities requirement for far for commercial use. Floor to floor heights have also been adjusted to respect the commercial podium along santa clara street shown in the lower images, and then the terracing of views to access use of saint james park and the open spaces to the northeast as shown in the upper diagrams. All of this is conceptual in the stage and market drive reality o market the configuration. The ddf is intended for the framework and not a final design and as the plan is developed, it's adjusted to achieve the overall goals and to change massing based on future demand, some are taller as shown n the blue diagram and other areas. Another topic critical to the overall success is the approach to parking. The ddf seeks a solution which will open up the ground floor to pedestrian and public spaces and we started by a range of different options for thissupport. Looking at the far left which shows the parking requirements which is obsolete by the time this is realized to the far right which would be a single basement level to parking to study a range of options thatare available to us on the site. With car stackers and two basement levels, you can achieve over 1,000 parking spaces on this site and on the left is a plan with a basement level and you see the back of bartfacilities are directly underneath the plaza with the parking wrapping around. At the next slide you will see a very conceptual section of what that looks like showing how the bart station on the back of the house coordinating to allow dot with parking below the plaza and the tod building above and this is what has been provided with the recent projects with the vta block. Given the shifts to reduce parking ratios, the vtaproposes that vta aspires at this forefront. Looking forward, this can occur over many different phases.This allows for multiple options in terms of phasing either following a directional approach depending on which site is available first as shown on the diagram or a more programmed based approach and the most viable buildings will be constructed first as shown n the bottom. With that, I will pass it back to ron to explain more about next steps.8:33 PMThank you, peter.When we presented at the committee in May of this year, there were a number of questions that came about what would happen after the ddf process. Let me explain what the process will be. So as I mentioned, we visioned coming back to the board about what are the options and the process for engaging one or more developers. Subject to the board's approval next month, we are hopeful in the fall and summer will ultimately lead to the board with one or more developers to act on vta's behalf and work with property owners. At that point, we envision on this path going forward and this will actually work with the bart phase 2 station contractor and this very natural item for the station's contractor and the developer to coordinate on that element together and the element above and to think about what is the master planning framework to go about how to create this development and this can be done in a number of different ways to achieve the outcome coordinated by this development. All of this will be occurring and leading toapproximately 4. 4 where we can come back to the vta board and ask the board to approve the master plan for development and other aspects of implementing a master plan. This concludes my presentation.I'm available for questions. Thank you, on and peter. We will now take public comment. Public speaker: eugene. Just looking at this proposal. What I read regarding development in the late 1980s and how stability is going to bring back to downtown san jose during the construction at that time, smaller businesses around downtown san jose were literally destroyed particularly around north second street.How do we know that similar -- even though this has gone above vta land. How do we know this won't happen with this development at the downtown san jose station. This project regarding the projected for 2030. How would that work? Thank you.8:37 PMNext speaker, please. roland? Public speaker: hank you and first of all, I need to profoundly apologize about my comment about your request and abstention of recusal and a block vote. That is why I eed the transcript. To appointing the nine square blocks surrounding this and I wonder if the board would beinterested in a more holistic design for the entire block. My last question is due to this walk in london where it's behind the water level. The entire train box constructed with silent bars. I'm wondering if vta should contact them to discuss this exact technology. Thank you.8:38 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: beak man. The comment about the light rail cost that needs surveillance and technology and public policy for it. For this item, you know, you had this item on a few times and luckily my memory is serving me well. I'm reminded, this place has been a bit exclusive in itsdesign. It can really really exclude people and that really worries me about the future of this project. I guess that's about all for now. Just be inclusive with all sorts of people and the future of this project. Thank you.8:39 PM> thank you. we will now close public comment. Are there any questions from my colleagues?Director paul, go ahead?I just have a couple detail oriented questions. I'm looking at this slide that has the square footage numbers and I see that the total residential squares are 730,000. With that breakdown of 400 market rate and 46,000 affordable. First of all, are those numbers accurate, am I reading that correctly?Yes, you are.Great. and do we have an estimate n the approximate number of living units for the total 730,000 square feet of residential space?8:40 PMThat's a great question. we don't have it now. The reason we don't is that the number of units is a function of the mixed units there are with one and two bedrooms and so on. Right now it tends to be more towards smaller units and there is units are smaller in size and location. Really all of that needs to be more market driven. Once the developer is working with us, we expect them to bring in their market based on the numbers and based on what unit sizes might be that we would have between 700 and 800 square feet perresidential units.8:41 PMSometimes you end up getting closer to 900 and 800, depending on the developer.That was my question.Thank you. any follow up questions questions or a motion?Sure. let me look at the recommendation.The staff recommends the development.I can move that.May I have a motion second.Sorry. I have a question on that.Go ahead. so there was a mention about affordable housing. What is affordable housing?So, the board adopted a tod policy, affordable housing policy is at 20% of any housing that is still on vta site that must be affordable to ouseholds of 60% of the area median income or less and 50% ami or less.That aside, for eample, by comparison, the current set framework allows for new high rise development in the mechanism and satisfy those requirements off site. Because of the board policy, we are going to adopt the framework with vta property here development occurs, it has to have that 20% affordable on site. I will be honest with you that that will be a challenge in making the funding and economics work as we take that on as part of this work.8:43 PMMilpitas just approved with only 54 parking. But it's because it's next to light rail, and bart. So, something like this, i'm wondering is there going to be enough parking for those that use light rail and bart andactually bussing?It's a great question. we kind of gave a brief discussion but the answer is the amount of parking needed is going down. If you talk to owners of buildings in san francisco and oakland area, they were seeingdecreasing amount of parking for buildings. So it's going down. So when we set the standards and even go below what google did and for downtown west, we think that is what the future is and being in this downtown setting in this dense environment next to a bart tation attracts people that want to take thatopportunity. We believe where the market is headed and viable and ultimately a question we'll work out with the developers once we select developers for the vta property.8:44 PMIs this going to be an hoa?That is a great question. that gets the question of how different owners work together and to be safe, very simply, what is the scale and is the case that other developers might do these jointly and not be an hoa, and we might have the plan with owners doing this properly and there May need an hoa for this.8:45 PMYeah, that concerns me because you have affordable housing and you tap on the hoa fees, some of these fees are really exorbitant and that's why I ask.You are absolutely correct. that is a challenge that we'll need to address for this project.Yeah, okay. thanks for the update.Thank you, carmen. so we already have a motion and second.8:46 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes. thank you.Can I make another motion, vice-chair, with regard to this item as well?I would like to speak to one of the issues and one of the reasons I asked the number of units of housing we are talking about is one of the issues of course with transient oriented development is that we don'tnecessarily want to create so many pressures pon the housing needs such that they are out weighed by such that the housing needs are under delivered by the actual housing units being delivered. So I think itwarrants some discussion with regard to overall systemically, how do we address this when we are talking about streaming together the various transient oriented developments because we ultimately have to think about how are the shortfalls of housing going to be delivered. Now, I was happy to put the motion on the table oving forward, but I think it is an important question and perhaps referring it to the pac for further input to make some sense. If possible, I would like to defer that question to the policy committee. Next week's pac meeting for the review of the program. Member paul, the question that you are asking is very germane to the program. So if it's acceptable, we would be happy to address that in the pac meeting nextweek in the discussion and report back with the pac discussion to the board.8:47 PMThat sounds great. I appreciate that. At the end of the day, if the hard numbers tell us that we are putting in 3,000 -- workers and units, but do we have an idea if this is going to be effective overall. Thank you. I really appreciate that information and already agree to the pac discussion next week.8:48 PMAll right. we will work that out. All right. Next on our agenda is item 7. 2.General manager/ceo to execute a contract with universal protection service, lp, d/b/a allied universalsecurity services, to provide armed and unarmed security services for santa clara valley transportation authority from October 1, 2021 through September 30, 2026, for a contract amount of $40,220,069; with two (2) additional one-year option periods to extend the contract through September 30, 2028, for a total contract amount not to exceed $58,528,662. A full staff recommendation is on your screen. Angelique of systems safety and security will provide a brief report.8:49 PMThank you, vice-chair. I won't repeat what you just said since you already covered that. Vta currently contracts with allied services, and that contract after being extended several times expires this month. We in May issued an rfp for armed and unarmed services. We received two proposals. The names of the company are in the staff memo. One of them was allied universal. In July of this year, we completed the rfp process and notified the two proposals that we were going to award and at that time we begannegotiations with allied universal for a five year contract with two options to extend and those negotiationsjust finished at the end of august on august 20th. So you heard me respond earlier to board member chavez that we sort of got caught in between a rock and hard place and weren't able to take it to standing committee like we typically do because we were under a tight timeframe and extended the contract a number of times in response to some challenges that we experienced mostly around the cyberattack. We were setback a period of time and had to setback the contract and had negotiations through the end of august. With that, we bring you a new contract with allied universal and with the execution of the proposedcontract, private security services would continue with allied universal and cover our 346 square miles of service. Specifically what we would get in that contract is a continuation with increased staffing and basically the same services, combined armed and unarmed staffing. Over the years, that staffing has gone anywhere from on the low end in the mid-80s to recently 103 staff under contract. These individualsprovide security services system wide through patrol, and also with designated post at each of the employee facilities and that includes our headquarters, bus yards and train yard as well as our customer service center. They also provide security for end of the line post. So, for example, the bus line 22. Theyare up at the end of that line in palo alto to make sure that the buses can be swept before they are turned around and headed in the opposite direction. They also offer asset protection at the train station for whatever reason they are there because certain work is being done or whatever the reason we have security there. We have run into some issues in the past with some folks actually vandalizing our trains so this is a very important service that we receive to protect a very valuable aset. Allied services also monitors our cctv programs and we have those on our trains and this is required for the regulation and it's iortant for someone to be monitoring the videos and so we can do an investigation following an incident.They also assist with our revenue collection from our ticket vending machines and the administration from our lost and found program and act as special ambassadors around special events. It's also worth noting that allied personnel who provide services for us undergo regular training and also includes deescalation training, cultural diversity training, employer relations training, gender sensitivity, sexual harassmenttraining, discrimination and harassment training. Unconscious bias and situational awareness among others. At you will see there is a summary of the partnership we have had with allied over the years. One of our requirements of our rfp did ask the proposers to show that they had experience with large events and that's important because of the places of service and throughout downtown when we are dealing with different events including the women's annual March -- that happens January and any other event hat is helpful to have the assistance that help with the trains moving safely through the area and also participate in health and safety campaigns. They have a kickoff every September and they are critical in helping us get information out to the middle school age kids and with our light rail rehabilitation projects offeringsecurity when the projects are on going nd the capital projects as well. Currently, they are providingapproximately 4700 hours of service on weekly basis. Lastly, in addition to wealth of experience and providing security for transit agencies, allied universal's proposal was the most cost-effective option for vta. As you can see in the graph also ncluded in our staff's memo includes the cost for armed and unarmed services for the full duration which shows a modest escalation of 2% for the contract and falls in line with the independent cost estimate that was done to prepare for the rfp and market research. We've got our protective service manager marco garcia on the zoom call with us to answer any questions around the rfpprocess. I was not involved personally in that but he can speak to how that orks if there are any questions and we have a couple representatives from allied universal, particularly casey bryant, the contractmanager and works closely with octavo garcia. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.Thank you.8:57 PMThank you. now we'll take public comment.Mr. Beakman, you May proceed speaking now. Public speaker:Hi, thank you. my understanding with this item, I think this item is so incredibly important to talk about the future of light rail service and how to begin to clean up the mess and what could be more positive with light rail. You know, this security case came really effective with the light rail. You've done some interesting good work with security on the buses in the past years. We just have to really address the future of howoften the security on light rail. It should be next to zero and you can't be bussing people along the light rail tax anymore. You have to stop doing that. It's a light-rail station. You have to work on these issues. Please accept what i'm trying to say. Thank you for the positiveness of this item.8:58 PMMr. Roland, go ahead and begin speaking. Public speaker: thank you. I have no problem with tallied. I'mfamiliar with the other location and they did not match the reports of the contract. I would like to know if they are going to be part of the contract and start implementing metal detectors, and if not, why not?Thank you.8:59 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: eugene. Good evening, eugene bradley, silicon valley. Echoing some of the comments. A question I have in particular. I have only seen maybe the security people ride the vta buses and light rail maybe three times. Will that be done more often. What I have seen especially from women about being harassed aboard the buses and trains at night and exceptionally angerous for female bus drivers and they are driving alone at night out of fear of being harassed or attacked. Will there be anyeffort to increase the on board riding security of allied universal staff as well as sheriff's? That's one question I have. Thank you.Mr. Chair. that's the end of public speaking.Thank you. we will now close public comment and we do o the board. Director chavez?Thank you. I do just want to reiterate the point that angelique made arlier about the timeline of the situation and all the activities that were going on. I'm going to make a motion to move this forward and in part because I understand that we have the ability if necessary with six months notice to end the contract, and part of the reason for that is I do want to get a little bit more information from the contractor and i'm happy to do that ff line. So I want to move the staff's recommendation and then I have one comment.Thank you. can I get a second.Second.Thank you, I think that this is going to put us in a situation where e need to reexamine the way we areapproaching public safety along the alignment. I'm appreciative that the partner we have is a partner that we've had for a while and that allows us a little more synergy in terms of being able to respond to futuretrends and future needs. I'm comfortable with that and to say it's such a big contract and not to have to dive into is making me a little uneasy. Thank you.Thank you. we have a motion and second. Elaine,Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] motion passes. Thank you.Thank you. the last item on our regular agenda is item 7. 3. Silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) programupdate. (verbal report) (salpeas)Good evening, Mr. Vice-chair. good evening, board members. My first page. The design of the new committee for our station continues, and I wanted to tell you that by thanksgiving, we are going to be done. Tomorrow morning the vta web page is going to have our report and would like to have feedback.The second bullet and for these properties and the domain and we finished with the contractors offices and we are moving as we are planning to move. The vta and bart, I wanted to tell you tonight that 90% of the71 manuals which is supporting our procurement contracts signed and we are going to get them done before the 14. With santa clarita, you know since last month they have been completed and I understand the plans have been ready and sacramento will provide their signature. We will continue with fta and they are contracted for it and they are working in the process to initiate the work of this function that's vta and the planning agency of fta to establishing the final budget to be included in the full funding grant agreement. In the last meeting, our ceo and fta executive director told us that we are going to receive anotification of our selection to the federal program on September 11th. Some of you May recall September 11th is 120 days from the day fta told us -- either a week or two weeks. And what they told us as part of the project selection. And that is very important for us because as you know we have a processing place and awarded. And fta will send to congress and congress will have a 30 day review period and if congresshas any objections, we will receive a letter from fta sometime in mid-october. And we shared as part of theagreement. The federal loan allows the fta to issue a letter of intent which is to include our project with the federal process. So that is good for us and they have given us the time we need to open the bids to see with a the actual price is at and call fta to fix our budget and execute the full funding of grant. After executing with fta, we are not going back to change the schedule and the budget and amendment. I know our ceo is looking looking at this today.Thank you, takis. I did hear from the director of the federal transit administration and he gave me a call today to say they are working to try to meet with the goal of September 11th giving us a letter of ntent but there are activities they are doing at fta and coordination with u. S. Dot and also some working withoffice of management and budget, lmb. Between those three, it might take a little longer. He wanted us to be aware. It's not going through the process of a capital investment grant and not quite fta but it is adetermination of the maximum amount that they will be participating in fta. That is why they are taking a little bit longer and they expect it and probably not much later than a month late. They are orking pretty hard to get it through. He just wanted to let me know where that letter was to give us an udate.Thank you.This is my typical page. I update you every month on what is going on with the procurement. As you know we have four contracts. The system as contract and we finished the first round and we plan for your action sometime in the summer next year. The program, we finished the second round and we now have received red line comments. We are going to incorporate all the comments and we are going to issue the final contractors to prepare their bids. This should be before ou in the spring to ask for awarding of thiscontract. Ach way, the applications, I think next week and that will be the summer of 2023 and of course our three stations and tomorrow you can see the design on the vta work page. Nd the last day ofseptember, we are going to see the segment of qualifications of the contract for participating in the pocess.N the summer of 2023, you will have the opportunity to award this contract. This is my framework. You arefamiliar with this. You are amending the plan and i'm available to answer any questions you have.Thank you, takis. we will now take public comment.Mr. Roland, you May speak now. Public speaker: thank you. There is a letter in your packet that basically shows the numbers. The ttachment of the vta documents on page 5 and 6. The overall cost of the projectby $217 million over the last year. It's now at $10. 63 billion before you add the $400 million measure a finance charges. The overall ost is $11 billion and we already spent $800 million and at some point weneed to go back to look at what we are doing and maybe something more intelligent and more than 5% federal funding. Thank you.Mr. Chair, before I call the next speaker, I want to state that Mr. Lebron submitted comment on 7. 3 and it is posted online. Mr. Beakman, you can begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, this is blair beakman here, with 20% funding with my shallow understanding, that could be reinvested really easily and really well. And roland has brought up some interesting points. Hopefully more of this. When ms.Fernandez was the general manager, she orked on other measure b projects. That was an interesting choice and I like those ideals. Thank you for that time. A quick reminder that eugene, myself and supervisor chavez all offer important points about --That was the last speaker, Mr. Chair.All right. we will now close public comment. I see director chavez has her hand raised. Go ahead, directorchavez.Thank you and I wanted to say thank you for the report and what I think is very exciting news. Thank you for that. Two questions that I had. One is if we are already starting to talk to folks working on this project, I would be very interested in knowing what our bbe and sbe goals are for the project. I ask for that question because we set some standards around contracts before they were let n the past and I can'tremember where we are in the process here?Yes, for the first fee now I believe we are at 20% which is the goal on the contract. I don't think we have established a goal yet for the system contract that will come ith the final stages.I would prefer that you come to the board prior to the contracts being led and that is at the next couple meetings. The reason is that we've had some incredibly important success in some areas relative to thissubject, but we hven't, I don't think we've been nearly as consistent as I would like to be, and I understand that we've been doing a lot in the last few years and this is one of the bodies of work that our former ceo was leaning us on. I would like that to be revisited. The 20% for the tunnel, you know,understand that part of that is one big piece of equipment as well, so recognize that 20% May be appropriate for that, but for the other parts of it, i'm really looking for a much higher level in the 30-35% range. So if we can have that come back to the board would be really great. My second question really is alittle bit along the last point that you just raised about it's not money in the bank but very close. I'm just wondering from the board's perspective, if there is any concerns frankly that you have as we are gettinginto, it feels like we are getting closer ut anything you want us to be aware f that May impact timing.You mean concern whether or not the construction might be higher?I know that part of the who who -- work that you are oing now is meeting part of the governor, they have to meet a lot of queries and the volume of information they are requesting and what i'm trying tounderstand is where are we in that process and do you feel we are ready to land this plane, start the train.Do you feel like they have stopped and you are just waiting on them now?First of all, we need to get some of the federal of what we selected and then our ceo issued -- and the government is going to provide another -- they are going to allow us to take up to two years we were told and that will give us a very stable budget and with estimates and the planning process. They will be here and put t together and the funding on the initiative -- and with the contractor, we asked that same question about the budget and the job. Can you do the job and we had this conversation. This is basicallytheir activities. [inaudible]Was I helpful?Yes, you did. thank you.Thank you, takis and everyone on the team. Thank you. I appreciate it. Takis, what are the chances thatthe noi we received is less than $1. 7 billion?Less than 7 billion?Less than 1.7.No. that was in the application and if they accept the application, we are going to get 1. 7. I believe 1. 7 will be the floor of this.Okay. wonderful. this is really a binary question and I will be ooking at different numbers. I know we have done a lot of vetting over the mistakes and lessons learned through the prior phase 1 and challenges with consultants and subcontractors and so forth.A confidence that we've made the changes to address the challenges that arose in phase 1?Yes, a lot of those changes, and the agreement with 65% of the program and we have hired the designer and will come in for 6-8 months to design the project and will call us to finish the design and phase 1 and will give you the advice. And then we are coming to you to award stage 2. That is one of the opportunities.The designing and couple activities to the full project and final guarantee. Mr. Mayor, the feds like it likethat and we will give you an loi to get this fixed. Remember we came to an agreement and that's what we are doing. Yes, look orward in the near future to brief you of the changes. I know we are going to have some time to take you through. Some of you have already asked questions and i'm going to take you through.Thank you. it would be helpful that we are clear collectively about this. Thank you all.Thank you, sam.Takis, first of all, thank you very much for your time. Presentation. De goals are one of my highestpriorities as well. I wanted to hear from john wright in terms of his strategy and the goals and objectives he is trying to accomplish to meet some of those goals and actually xceed them. I don't know if john isavailable.Yes, sir, this is john white, i'm available hre.All right. go ahead.As takis indicated, the draft rfp for track works was issued with 20% dbe goals and 25% sbe goals and the system contracts are still under review with the office and the program which reports to me. I believe we can and should be aggressive. The suppliers are only going to do what you ask them to do. If we ask for 30%, we have the chance to get 25-29%. The more we push for is the better result we are going to get.Over the last year, the party and the minority consortium have supported numerous outreach events asrecently as last Tuesday up in san francisco as well as launching the bay area diversity business forum. We have a meeting scheduled with the short listed times for September 22nd in san jose, and my opinion, I think that we are very well placed to achieve some very sufficient goals with this contract.Thank you, john.Carolyn?Yes, I appreciate the discussion on the dva goals and would like to be aggressive on that as well. When mayor liccardo mentions the lessons learned, we had a higher than substantiate ddv on that contract and it was great, the contractor went out and was very aggressive in what we did do, and we did have difficulties in the contract and we did a lot of work with them. The whole state was having issues at that time. So a lot of it is how fast can you get them registered and do they meet the federal requirements. So a lot of ork is done and talking about a large contract and when you are talking about 30%, you are talking about billions of dollars being vailable and are there ddv's to do those dollars and we struggled that in the first phase.We did get a contractor who did a lot of our steel and rebar for phase 1. I would like to be aggressive onthis, I just want to make sure that it doesn't take away from the ability. I want them to focus on getting the contractors that they need to do and have that effort going forward, but I want to make sure it's notunattainable in the sense that what's the market goes to look like. That's something that the dde ffice looks at and what is the market there and that is some aggressiveness and also some realism because we did have issues of phase 1. We are working on the market a lot and calling on various states on what ome of the contractors were and bringing them down and there is a lot of discussion about that.I definitely understand the challenges, but I still o back to I want us to be as aggressive as possible to try to achieve those gals, understanding what you just indicated. Thank you, carolyn. I ee director chavez.Thank you. maybe what we should do is get a briefing on our next board agenda on what we have been doing in this period because we've had a program in place for 5-6 years since the electric phase anyway. It would be great to know what work is done based on this innovation and policy changes and questions that carolyn is addressing. I hope that we can have this on our next agenda at our next board meeting.Thank you. any other comments?All right. that was an informational item. So there is no need for a motion. So we are onto other items. We heard from the general manager on item 8. 1 earlier. So now we are going to move on to the chairperson'sreport and I actually did my read out earlier as well. So I have nothing to report. Now we are on items 8.3. Items of concern and referral to administration. We have a report on safety and review and that is in the online packet. I'm going to board member chavez who would like to speak to this item.Thank you. colleagues, what you have in front of you is a recommendation from board members hendricks,i'm sorry, board chair hendricks, vice-chair jones and director peralez and myself. And what's attached to it is an action that our board took yesterday relative to providing support and partnership with vta for the families and employees of vta along with the county's intent to consider developing a trauma recovery center that can be responsive countywide to issues like this and other kinds of traumatic events includingother iolent crimes, and then the other thing you will see is a letter that came from senator cortese to vta outlining his requested uses of the money that he put forward. So, using those two as background and working with my colleagues, we are bringing forward a request that really ask for a labor management partnership to consider culture and climate at vta, look at what it is today and look at how to improve that.And it really weighs out an approach that accept senator cortese's framework to work on a path to bring this agency forward in a healing way. And with that, it asks for a report out from the full board oncommunication and culture and also to make sure we are getting quarterly reports on how we are handling impacted families throughout the organization. This is a request for the report to come back to the board with a response to this communication.Thank you, director chavez. director peralez?Yes, thank you, and thank you director chavez as well for your work on this. I appreciate the partnership and look forward to have some recommendations here as we heard from a number of our city employees after the tragedy and quite frankly that's what we have been looking for. We are looking for an opportunity to see how do we improve this organization, and we've heard a number of our employees come forward and speak up on things that I think we need to hear and we want to hear, and we want to make sure that we are really creating a workplace and environment that is beneficial for everybody and we have atremendous opportunity with senator cortese's work and what director chavez was able to help allocate with state money. So I think we have a great opportunity in front of us. So I look forward to being able tomove this forward. I think additionally in regards to this referral, it's referred from a number of ourorganizational employee. I think it is important that we consider what opportunities are available for potential hazard pay. I want to make a recommendation to move forward both this referral and then separately in a separate recommendation to ask our staff to bring forward to the board opportunities that May be available for hazard pay for our employees and then agendaize that conversation for our nextboard meeting.All right. now we will go to public speakers. Do we have any public speakers to comment on this item?Yes, we have. Mr. Beakman. public speaker: hi, thank you for allowing public comment on this item. This is really really important work and i'm learning a lot from this. There are many many ways that we can be talking about our future bureaucratic path at this time and this is one of them. Thank you. I hope we are making some important changes for ourselves, not ust with law enforcement and I feel we need to have a few more public meetings about the security service. We can do that in the next few months. Good luck in those efforts. Cindy can take care of them hopefully. But beside just law enforcement, it's many many issues and how our local government bureaucracy itself have this change and you have been uptight anduncomfortable and i'm sorry with that. Good luck with love and care.Public speaker: good evening, once again, board members. Eugene. To echo some of the comments inregard to all of this stuff comes down to the golden rule. Treat other people the way you want to be treated. That's all this boils down to. It just seems unfortunate that internally at vta, tlgs -- there is this huge gap between management and employees. Do what you need to do to get this turned around. You have a lot of people already upset especially in san jose and campbell. They are upset with not having lightrail service. Do what you have to do to fix this. Thank you.Roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to say thanks to director peralez for starting this conversation and the only question I got from this board is why on earth did it take so long? thank you and good night.Our next speaker is melanie. go ahead and begin speaking. Public speaker: hi, my name is melanie simmmelanie simpson speaking on behalf of the transit workers and I would like to say that I like the fact that we are now looking at the workplace culture as being important, and I think it is important that you notonly look at sending a consultant in but also to bridge the gap between the workers and the executives themselves because a lot of the workers aren't heard by the xecutives because they are not in meetings.They ay come to these meetings but they are only allowed a minute for public comment, and they are not able to get their voice heard and followed up on. I don't know what the process is for following up on public comment. But those are my suggestions. Thank you.That concludes our public speaking, Mr. Chair.Thank you. director peralez, you have your hand up. Did you want to comment?No, thank you.Carolyn?I have a comment and I do appreciate a thought put into this referral as I mentioned early on into my comments that I do want to take a look at our culture and how we ommunicate among each other. Do we have the resources and the tools for our employees to do the best job they can. How to move forward toprovide the services they need to heal and for their families for our workforce. I want to be sure we continue. I do appreciate the monitoring and it keeps us on point and we'll be back to the board and worktogether with the union organizations and they have been great in supporting us with getting back with the light rail service and I appreciate your thoughts for putting in this referral.Thank you. director chavez?Thank you. wanted to respond to the last point from the last speaker melanie. Part of the reason that we are bringing someone from the outside in is I think it will help to have a fresh set of eyes and fresh approach. The other is that senator cortese's approach really shaped up having the unions and management and really kind of top to bottom, left to right, you know, that there is a higher recognition that working together is the only way we are going to get better which is what carolyn said and I reallyappreciate you saying that and this really codifies the intent and we hope the intent is not just the staff but also recognizing the intent of the board. Thank you, melanie for saying that.All right. there are o other comments. We are moving on to announcements. Are there anyannouncements? I guess not. We are now adjourning our meeting in the memory of henry gonzalez. Thank you, everyone.Thank you, chair.