Good morning. our workshop is now called to order. Thank you to my colleagues for taking the time to attend today's meeting. Elaine oll call, please.Abe-koga.She's hereHereThank you.Le.Burt.Here. 3Chavez.Davis.Hendricks.Attending.9:02 AMJain jimenez.Lee.Present.Lee ing.Here.Ricardo.Present.Paul.Here.Corlaes.Rainey.Here.Constantine. chair jones.Present.You have a quorum, sir, thank you.Thank you, elaine. we like to ask the board, presenters and members of the public to be mindful that we have three items on the agenda. I'm encouraging you all to be concise in making your comments to ensure we can discuss all the items on our agenda today. The first item on our agenda item 2. 1, an update on the future of the light rail system. I want to note that we will take public comments for this item at the conclusion of the presentation. Caroline, see the manager and ceo -- kim gonot is the ceo nd manager to hear this item.9:03 AMGood morning, thank you chair and thank you for all attending today. I just say a few comments before the presentation. When I talked to the board members and the staff was that the time, the recently shown next gen study about light rail and there was a lot of discussion about that and also some concerns about whether it fully looked at other alternatives and I started looking into that study and we need to do a deeper dive and what's driving a lot of the discussion around light rail and the use of light rail. And thefuture of light rail. And one of the things I did define in that vta was the first form of stabilization and it was define a process to assess the future of light rail and what the other alternatives maybe, so i'mstepping back a little bit from the next gen study and taking a deeper dive into the questions. They will evolve around the cost for light rail, why are cost so high? how can we be productive. There's details on getting our ridership up. And the focus is on what we can do in terms of costs and analysis of how to make our service more efficient and maybe changes that we will consider, so this isn't, I would say not something to be -- to answer questions today, but drive the conversation as to where we're going to go and the process we're going to start to answer questions about the future of light rail. So, i'm going to turn this over to jason, senior transportation planning and he's been doing a lot of work. This has been acollaborative effort across the agency with operations, external affairs, you know, asking the right questions and the whole planning group as well, so there's and engineering as well, so we've been discussing sort of this presentation and primarily it will be wo parts. One is primarily on light rail cost andthe next is the process for analyzing and going forward and various analysis of the system, so i'm going to turn this over to jason, thank you. Jason.9:05 AMMy name is jason kim, a senior planner at vta and we're going to discuss the future of the light rail system.If we need to the next slide, briefly in the agenda, we'll talk about the background on the next gen study.To give you highlight of the overview. We'll talk about program considerations for the system moving forward. Provide high level details on our operating cost structures and as mentioned, talk about the areasof the analysis or next steps that we want to look at moving forward. The next g, next study was completed in 2020 and were there cost alternatives and v tv and we included standard and nonstandard.We had findings, we can go to the next slide. We found interesting details, our light rail system is the largest systems in the country and it's the fastest systems in the country. We're in the stop third of both categories, can we go to the next slide, please. Thank you. In addition, if we're looking at the future of ourlight rail system, one of the keys is we'll need to decide what to do with our fleet within the next three to seven years. While this makes this seems like a decision is coming up soon, which it is, we have a couple of years to do an analysis before making a decision. I want to note with alternatives we looked at it and we looked at how much it will cost to replace the light rail system with operated buss and this includes rippingout all light rail track, all 81 miles and replacing that with essentially vrt style buses. We found that in estimates, provide a return on investment for that 60 years ue to replacing that many miles of track andconcrete. Finally, we want to note that light rail is being used very successfully throughout the country and the world. The reason hy at vta we're looking to see if there's alternatives because of our high operating costs especially when you compare us to our peers. And with that, I think we're going to focus on the cost numbers today, but if we go to the next slide, I believe i'm passing this back off to caroline to talk about our considerations moving forward with the system.9:07 AMSo, some of the questions that we're sking today, not asking -- asking today and start to move forward in the analysis is really, he thing we always ask is, don't look at efficient because of our cost are still high.The companies questions revolve around that. How do we efficient serve our current customers and what is ur future base customer is going to look like given the -- the pandemic has made a change and how isthat going to go forward in how people travel so that's what we need to look at and how should we continue to invest in the light rail system. I think jason can give a little more context, you know, we're -- the largest light rail in the system in the country and has the average speeds although it seems slow indowntown. But we're the higher speeds in the country, how do we -- on the next set of slides, we'll talk about the cost breakdown we're seeing and where we want to do detailed analysis and get the cost down and in line with other agencies and what makes sense. What change do we need to make? Any futuresystem we have, the best opportunity to succeed. Some we can do in terms of cost and efficiencies and how we move forward and processes we put in place, but a lot of this is in partnership with the cities aswell in terms f their land uses and where those get placed and then also how we connect o our light rail system, so how do we support that as vta and how do other systems support? What we want to dig into, what ortions of the light rail work well and what areas should be targeted for improvements and the otherthing we'll do is look at other alternatives and there's changes in the rail system, in the rail vehicle market.So, that maybe there's less infrastructure needed or different kinds of infrastructure that are needed that might be more cost efficient. Those are things we'll look at as well as any other. Do we look at some rubbertire in the future if we can't seat costs and ridership, cost going down and ridership going up. I'm going to turn this back over to jason to talk about the cost section?9:10 AMThanks. we're going to provide a brief overview about some of our operating cost and this is really scratching the surface the data as caroline mentioned. Over the next couple of months, we'll do a detailedanalysis. That is pre-pandemic. That's the last year where we had a normal operating cost to work with and other agencies. And this is all from data from the national database. This is an accessible database, soreally anyone from the public could download the same data we have downloaded and see these numbers we'll be talking about today. As we go to the next slide, the metric we're going to be using is operating cost per revenue car hour. So, what does this man? That's, if you take our light rail operating budget and divide by the total number of cars out of the operating revenue services to picking passengers up and moving them around and dropping them off. For this metric, two car train counts for an hour. It's a good indication of wear and tear on our system. When we use his metric, vta has the highest average cost in the country.San ho stay is on the right side of the chart. And this chart shows all the different light rail agencies in the country right now. We're about 70% above the national average. But the key here is what areas are cost high and what areas are cost actually closer to average? If we go to the next slide. First area we want to focus on is our operator related cost. And so this is related to all the cost for paying our operators wages and benefits and it's a function of the total number of hours they're working and average car lengths they're operating. But in general, for these cost is the fifth highest in the nation and we're 35% above the national average and it makes sense for the cost of living in our county and we should note this is about11% of our total operating budget for light rail, so when you think about it, when we, you think about our light rail cost, we pay our operator a certain amount of wage and benefits and pay nine times that for veryother related cost to operating the light rail system. If we go to the next slide. One of the areas where we're the highest in the nation is our all other staffing related cost. So this is all staff related to supporting the systems and maintaining the reek and maintaining -- vehicles and maintaining our track and powersystem and signaling system. This includes administrative and management cost with operating the light rail fleet. For this cost, we're the highest in the nation and from the agencies, this cost is the largest costarea. So, we're above, about 80% above the national average and this is one of those areas we do want to do a more focused analysis on moving forward. Moving on to the next slide. One of the other key areas that we want to look at are parts of materials cost. While these bars look small compared to the other two bars we've looked at, this is an important one for vta. In terms of parts and materials, we're the highest in the nation and we're more than twice the national average in terms of how much we spend on parts andmaterials for light rail. I should note that this is about 11% of our operating budget and higher than the total amount that we pay our operators and their respected benefits. And finally, if we go to the last chart, this is a catch-all for everything else related to operating the light rail. Cost related to traction power,taxes, insurance, all the other category that the national transit database collects. Regarding these cost, we're the fifth highest in the nation. The key is none of these costs are really that extraordinary for vta and none of them stand out to us. The key s when we're looking at the area where we're above average, none of these areas stick out to us. The two cost areas we'll be focusing ongoing forward are other non-operator wages as well as our parts and materials costs. If we move onto the next slide, we do want to change topics quickly and talk about light rail cost verses bus stop operating cost. What of the keys we've been talking about with the board is this idea about what it would look like to replace our light rail system with a respected bus service instead. So we want to talk with the board about what that might look like but go into details about would it make sense to operate light rail and buses. So if we move on to the next slide.This chart shows light rail and bus operating costs for a handful of what I would consider our closest peer agencies and these are the west coast agency that's have both bus and light rail service. And so, while vtahas the highest average light rail cost in the country for light rail, our bus operating costs are bove average a well. And we, you are considering what it would look like to replace light rail with bus service and the key is not how much they cost, you also the cost in relationship to each oher. So, at vta, light rail cost costthree times that at bus cost. You can run three hours of bus service for the same it cost to run one hour of light rail. For most agencies, this ratio is closer to two to one. Other agencies are a lower ratio than us. But the big point here is, light rail is a high capacity strength to system that can hold many more passengers that be a 3 bus can. Light rail cost two to three tiles more than a bus, I can hold up to eight more massengines. You have passengers on a light rail train, it's more cost effective for light rail than bus service. If we move onto the next slide. Thank you. This is showing the relationship between the number of vehicles,the respected capacity for pass -- passengers and cost. A typical bus can hold 45 passengers. This is an average passenger load it's be packed like sardines, but it's a full bus. A third goes to paying the operator and benefits and 2/3 goes for the maintenance related to that bus whfl you look at a one car light rail train which is the next line, it holds about 120 passengers comfortably. This is a little more, a higher class than our passengers are used to, but it's well below what you would ee at levi stadiumy rent where we'repacking more that be 150 per light rail in those cars. As i've mentioned, our cost are very high, so when you look at a light rail vehicle's cost, ten percent or 11% of that goes to the operator and we're payingmore in other maintenance cost associated with that vehicle. So, when you look at a light rail vehicle that can hold 120 passenger, you'll need bus to replace that capacity. And the cost for two and a half buses is a little less than one light rail car, so at vta, a one-car light rail train cost more to operate two buses and as light rail et bigger and longer and you're serving more passengers, light rail scales better so the key is trying to figure out where light rail starts to cost less er passenger than a standard bus does. For vta, thatpoint, that tipping point is three-car train. So if you go to the last line. Three-car train can hold (indiscernible) passengers and it's cheaper than operating seven and a half buses which is what you would need to serve 370 buses so vta's tipping point is a three-car train. If we move to the next slide, we want to show you what this would look like if we got our cost down closer to the national averages. For most otheragencies, that tipping point is actually a two-car train, so for most other agencies, a two-car train is actually, it starts to become cheaper than operating five buses so for every other agency, their tipping point for light rail is more cost efficient is a two-car train. If we move onto the next slide to summarize all that we've just talked about. For vta, light rail service is cost effect. The only trains in our county duringlarge stadium event services and a two car train is when light rail is being cost-effective and that's a standard vehicle. Vta, some of our more productive areas require two-car trains and specifically the segment from south san jose to north san jose. They're dropping passengers off or picking them up in downtown. I'll admit for the rest of our system during off peak, we May be need that capacity that light railprovides us not today. However, looking forward, we do expect some need for a high-capacity transit system in our county for the future as caroline mentioned, there's going to be a lot of changes in our county, a lot of potential market change in terms of the passengers we're serving. A lot is keyinfrastructure county including bart and high-speed rail. Which are big key drivers for ridership on our light rail system. So, really the question we're and examining at vat, if light rail is the high-capacity transit system we're looking at for the future, how do we get our cost down to something closer to the national average? So that's the question that we're kind of starting to look at today. I believe now we're going to take a quick break to see if there are any clarifying question from the board?9:20 AMYeah. I just want to make sure, so the two areas we see cost higher in parks task force and the other are the other cost and operator cost ask those are anything from specific -- something dealing withmaintenance all the way do the admin, to so a lot is looking at process issues in areas like that and that's one thing i'll say that bringing greg on as the cfo, we're starting to look at our processes and efficienciesand we'll continue to do that as well, so I think those are the areas we need to look at, some of those soft cost as well and how we administer things in terms of moving, supporting the light rail system. So anyway.I think jason is correct. We want to know whether -- we'll pass this over to thehair if you want to ask questions or wait until the second portion?9:21 AMWe'll take questions now before I go to my colleagues. I have a question on slide -- I have a question on slide 14. So, your analysis, if I have the correct understanding is based on full capacity for the buses and light rail. Have you done a separate analysis based on actual ridership for the two modes of transportation?9:22 AMYou're correct. so, this is based on capacity. We haven't done an analysis on actual ridership yet. That's one of the next steps we could be doing after this study.I do think we do have some sense of when we -- as jason mentioned, when we need two-car trains pre-pandemic and we haven't fully seen what bart can do for the county until the commute patterns will hopefully change back or there's more use and more connections. That's one of the areas that we'll belooking at as well, so we really don't know what this is going to be like three, four, five years from now, but you know, those connections o the major rail systems and bringing bart into san jose is a major connectionbringing high speed, if high-speed rail comes which hopefully and I hope it did you, it comes into san jose and there's connections and caltrain is electrified. It will drive light rail ridership.9:23 AMI appreciate that. I just don't know how, you know, looking at, you know, a comparison based on fullcapacity, knowing that our vehicles aren't at full capacity gives us a true picture of the actual cost. So, I just want to make that point. That's one of the concerns that I have and i'm going to go to directorhendricks.Yeah, thank you, chair. just to follow long with that a little bit, is this, looks like it's a standard side bus asopposed to the elongated buss and if we're using those, does that change these numbers?Eah. this is a standard type bus. If we use annie elongated bus like articulated bus, it will change the number a little pit, but the cost related to articulated bus verses a 40-foot bus do change a little bit, so it will be another row in this sheet if we wanted to add that, but the take away point doesn't change that much. Light rail is more effective for vta when operating the high speed.9:24 AMOkay, i'll make an observation. Somebody started by saying we have a decision to be made in three years or something like that, I would say that's extremely close, you know, for what it takes us as anorganization to go through and make a ecision and public outreach and everything involved, I would say that's a very close timeline and we need to probably move a lot faster on this than what anybody thinks.Our ability to make snap decisions, I don't think that exist right now, so I would just, from a timing perspective, I think this is, we need to get moving faster. Thank you.Thank you. director abe-koga.9:25 AMThank you, chair. thank you. I have questions about the capacity on the slide, but the notice the cost fish on the two-car train is pretty close or it's not -- it's be a big gap, so i'm assuming your next part or you're going to be looking at cost savings and perhaps that could, that would affect these bar to make it so that the two car-train might be more cost effective in term -- i'm speaking in terms of capacity. It's great to have car trains if they can fill them, but i'm not sure we're there yet, so. . . . Other different -- i'm assuming there are different cost with light rail and the bus service that you could reduce the light rail cost to make t similar.Maybe i'll note, if we go to slide 15, this is what a standard agency cost and I think this is the cost areas we're trying to improve to essentially where a two-car train is caper to operate than buses so this is the goal that we're heading towards.9:26 AMPerfect! thank you!Thank you. I don't see other hands raised. So, jason, continue with your --Wait. I see director montana.Thank you, chair t. seems that really the problem is that you're not getting enough ridership on this light rail and it has to do with speed. It goes back to speed. People's time is important and people don't want to waste their time being on the road. For example, right now, we have bart locus, but it's empty and nobody is using it. We can see it's because of covid, but even then, no one is -- I don'ty an increase there of theridership of bart -- I don't see an increase of the ridership with bart. To be honest, it doesn't go to where the job are and the jobs are in sunnyvale, mountain view, cupertino, the majority of those jobs are inthose areas, but we don't have a system in place where the light rail goes directly to -- it did you, but it takes so long, so people wind up taking their cars. I see that here you have the buses can, on the two-passenger, I think the buses can take folks there, however, if we replace -- if we replace the light rail in lieu of the buses, it will be more cost effective with the buses, however, something needs to be done with this speed verses the time to get to people's job. I don't though what it takes. Maybe elevate the light railsystem, just put -- just use buses for -- put the light rail system on hold. Use the buses until we can get those, i'm just thinking out of the box, get those light rail system elevated, the tracks or whatever you call it. We can here. But I don't know if that's cost effective either, so I guess we'll have to keep thinkingoutside of the box and find solutions so anyway. Yeah, I do think we need a study and kind of going with chappie's question, has there een studies in areas of the county that's more used highly and I haven't seen that yet. That will help me in terms of my, in making a decision, so all right. That's it. Thank you.9:28 AMThank you. director burt.Thank you. sorry, i'm by phone today. On a follow-up question on this whole question of the speed of the system, staff going to be looking at the issue of the number of stops and how stop frequency May actuallyreduce the speed of the whole system and the attractiveness of riding light rail? Is that something that will be looked at?9:29 AMYou know, i'll note that for burt's comments. We're doing different systems and we'll discuss that in the final part of the presentation.Thank you.Thank you. director liccardo.Chair, is it possible to wait for my questions in the end. I wanted to make sure I wasn't precluded from asking questions in the end?9:30 AMYou can ask your questions in the end?I'll wait then, thanks.Okay. I don't see any other hands, so jason, continue with your presentation.Great, thank you, chair jones. Now wee be talking about areas of analysis that will be moving forward into.Whether it's a developable plan to reduce our ongoing operating cost and provide better service on our light rail system. We have key areas evaluating our maintenance practices. Conducting evaluations ondifferent portions for our light rail to better serve those areas and monitor and reporting back on technologies moving forward. The first area that we want to look into is our operation and maintenance practices. One of the keys here is collect better data on our operating cost. As i've mentioned, in the one bar chart with the -- all the support staff for light rail, we don't have a good sense of how that all breaks up into that category and we would like to collect better data to better analyze those cost. Carolinementioned that we have started a park task force to better understand how we're procuring our parks and essentially making more efficient use of our parks for light rail fleet. I should note that this is really aneffort that has including many different parts of organization, this includes operations and includes procurements. You should note that we have been in touch with the unions regarding this as well. And really just this entire process of making potential changes to our light rail system and our ractices, so we're just making sure we keep the union involved with all potential changes. I do, if we move onto the next slide, I want to mention two potential operating changes that May allow us to both reduce our cost and just extend the life of our fleet. So, one of the ideas, we have two ideas to potentially reduce our ongoing ongoing mileage on our fleet. This will allow us to get more life out of our fleet because we're running less miles annually nd reduce wear and tear and operating cost and two ideas, and this was mentioned with an earlier presentation is operating more one-car trains for our system. As we've mentioned, we don't need two-car trains everywhere on our system and if we run more one car train, we can reduce the wear and tear and extend that timeline from three years to five, six years or so. We want to look at the spans of service on our system. Right now, we're operating light rail from 5:00 a. M. To 1:00 a. M. If we reduce our light rail system, maybe cut the last couple of hour of light rail service out at the end of the day and replace it with bus, we can see budget operating and reduce miles. The key here is to take passenger surveys and to outreach to see if this make sense for our passengers and I want to note that we will be 3start this process until post pandemic when, at which point it makes sense to talk about crowding on a light rail vehicle. So, these are probably topics that will come up likely after the pandemic is over. Moving onto the next slide. Something that what brought up is system evaluations for our system. We want to better understand how o operate segments that are either historically underperforming or operate. So we have four different areas that we kind of keyed into for our first initial analysis of the light rail system. This is will including looking at operating plans for this area and how much it cost to maintain these areascurrently ask thi and thinking is there a better way of operating it and looking at a different technology. We want to detail the segments for you. If we go to the next slide, the first segment we're going to be looking at is downtown san jose. This is well-known to the slowest part of our system. We have a unique track 3configuration here. And we're hoping to look at different ways to realign the tracks in downtown. This could include putting both tracks on a different street. It could include a much more larger infrastructure project such as grade except raying the tracks or even putting the tracks on a bypass in downtown to get thesystems speeds up. So we -- we're scoping this study and begin this study later this year. Moving on from the downtown study, there's three other areas we'll be looking into. The first include the tracks from campbell up to deer down station. Deer down is a major connection for us and but this portion of track is very challenging for us to operate. It's a review -- is there a better way to operate the system and make it more efficient in this area. If you go to the next slide, this portion of our system that's unique. It has very secure route and it look like a straight line on the map, this is the windiest part on the system with lots of twists and turns so we want to etter understand how to serve the riders here, serve the caltrain connection at the mountain view station. I believe someone mentioned this is actually an area where a lot of employment and we want to better serve and create better connections here and the last segment on the next slide is the eastside of our system. This is the light rail tracks south of the bart connection at milpitas bart. This is a relatively slow segment due to signal priority issues we have here. It's 3 relatively low density compared to some of the other portions of our system. And this will include the future eastextension, so we want to better understand how to better serve this corridor for our passengers as we move forward into looking 3 into our ongoing operating costs. Finally, the last kind of key area that we want to focus on with the light rail system is continuing to monitor new and emerging technologies. Both for bus and light rail, but the nonstandard technology out there. We want to continue to partner with other agencies and companies to see hat's out there, what's applicable to vta and what we want to keep theboard notified of as these technologies progress. So, we plan to report back to the board somewhat regularly as we find other technology out there that we would like to keep the board aware of finally, this is just a high level schedule of what we think some of these tasks are going to slide in. The thing to note is we're trying to do a lot of work within the next couple of years to start answering this question about what to do with our light rail system. And the one thing I want to note here, we aven't talked about today is the last led, the ridership growth. This is the hand-and-hand with operating cost and ridership. So, while wefocus on cost today, we do have a number of efforts we're focusing on to increase our ridership over the next couple of years that we'll be implementing. So, with that, I think I do want to hand it back off to caroline to give some closing remarks.9:37 AMSo I think one of the things, if you go and jason, can you go back to the slide where it show all the analysis we're going to do on the full one. I think, when we start to look at, I think it's -- I don't remember what the slide --It's a couple of more slides. this one.That one, perfect! one of the things that's starting to do a more in-depth analysis at each of these areas and i'm not saying the answer for all of them will be different. Part is looking at the service plans for each of these. Other way to make it work better. It doesn't mean that we would -- one of the things I want to look at and one thing that jason mentioned in the beginning, there's no newer technology, a new technology right now that could operate over the entire system. What we want to know is would we ever do that? And are there some technologies that work better in maybe some of these other areas of our light rail system? Or in other corridors within our county, our connected corridors in our county. That's part of --that's part of the analysis. We could look at this and say, does another alternative serve this better than light rail? You know, and so those are things that we're going to look at. Will the eastside work better if we get the signal priority because we're finding out speeds are higher and make connections to the regional market like bart or caltrain, that's a high ridership driver for people to want to ride it. We have to look at that. We have our focus on it today and we didn't focus on exactly looking at the metric on the ride ship and we're doing the sustainability study. He'll focus on those things from mtd that's metric for passengers.Each of these analysis isn't going to be similar because there's different markets and characteristics so this is something we're going -- we're going to be coming through and we'll probably be bringing information from this back to the board, but also through the spttl committee and bying information, so we'll take alook at these. They're all different how they operate. But the core system operates well outside of transit signal and the northern section of first street and by levi stadium, but we want to look at the other areas and see if there's an alternative that works and if something in the future that should be done for the future of the light rail system. That was a long winded way of ending that presentation or go towardsquestion, thanks.9:40 AMThank you, caroline. and thank you, jason. We will now take public comment for item 2. 1. Rainey, do we have any public to speak?Yes we do, Mr. Chair. however, i'd like o take note that we have received written posted, written comments from Mr. Glavas and jim stowman who is posted on the portal and we received Mr. Beekman with acomment also which will be posted later after the workshop meeting. I'm going to start calling on our speaker, Mr. Bradley, you May begin speaking when you're ready.Good morning board members, can everybody hear me?Yes.9:41 AMThis is eugene bradley, founder of the -- just watching this great presentation, (indiscernible) asking for vta to pursue fund to help provide the power to the light rail train. Also, one thing I didn't, I noticed that wasn't in the study is vta considered acts of converting at minimum the water light rail yard and have thatfully run by solar power? I feel that vta should compare looking at converting that yard from wood power to solar power and get our power from the sun. Also, I have to list the comment regarding the need for speeding up the light rail. Vta needs to look at-grade separating that as well as doing so for a couple ofother places. Thank you.Next speaker. Mr. John, you May begin speaking when you're ready.9:42 AMGood morning, everybody. this is jon, president and business agency from local 65. I want to say you're killing me with the one minute public comment. I speak fast already. I want to say there are no innocentvictims here. You all had an opportunity to fix the problem at light rail in previous years. We've been on the board. You've been part of politicians in the area. And instead of filling mud the entire time, we should have been looking at options and i'm happy o hear kyle discuss options with what we have in existence now to improve and then we see where we go from there. I think that's the most responsible thing to do because there are other cities who would love to have the infrastructure that we already have. And i'mvery happy to participate in all that. There is no mode of transportation that's going to I object crease ridership, so please keep that in mind.9:43 AMThank you, Mr. John. Mr. Beekman, you May begin speaking when you're ready.All right. thank you. bradley here. You know, there can be a fleet of smaller buses that can have bus route to work together and apply ten mile in diameter. And can center around vta and stop at santa clara county and some bus routes with larger bus can cover longer distance along santa clara roadway. This can invite bus gas and less wear on buses. This can invite better community corporation and better community practices and focus, how do you make the light rail the center of transportation in santa clara county? As we maybe and the feature of light rail using and buses using our automated light rail technology, this shouldn't be at the expense of current open ask o- -- -- and creative buses. This knees to be clear and accountable. As these are the ways to --9:44 AMThat conclli speaking period Mr. Chair.We'll close public comment and open it now for board discussion. So, i'm looking for raised hands. Director rainey.Thank yu, chair. you know, actually, following on what Mr. Courtney said, I think the reason we're having a productive discussion today is I think staff that done a really good job of identifying the right places that we need to put effort into. And we've talked about them before, but now i'm seeing a much more comprehensive report, so I want to thank, I guess with caroline's leadership that we're digging into theright places. We've talked about downtown and I like the fact that you're thinking about a lot of different changes to make the downtown more effective and caroline said in the beginning also that there's a lot ofchanges coming in the next five years when downtown starts getting built up with goggle, I think it's really going to activate the thing that's run south out of the light rail that runs south of downtown. And I like, you know, the fact that you're looking at some of the density and i'm wondering if we could, you know, start having some discussions with some of the cities about beginning more density around the current light rail.I think the thing to keep in mind is we need a fast backbone and you're looking at -- you've mentioned different way to speed it up and that has been something we've been talking about for a while. Further in thefuture, well, and I also like this focus on, okay, where are the costs of reducing, looking at parks task force, but I think you're doing a lot of good things. The one thing I would add for further in the future once we better understand how the valley is building out different with the bart coming in and goggle building downtown and so forth, I would hope that we could do a whole egion kind of analysis where you say, if Ihad a plank slate, what areas need to be connected? We're stuck with an infrastructure that we have, but for the more distant future and we had capital investment coming from somewhere, where would we add to the system that would actually enable a lot more ridership than the rest f the system. Clearly, we're going to mountain view, that's at job center, and that's good, but we're not getting to cupertino for example and there's a lot of job there. I know all the things you're looking at night are the right first steps, but I also want us to think further into the future, you know, how can we by maybe particular adds to bigjob centers that aren't, you know, with the fast backbone, jobs centers that aren't accessed now. Thank you.9:47 AMThank you. director abe-koga.Hank you, chair. and yes, thank you. I appreciate this presentation. I think we looked at light rl maybe a year ago and I really appreciate this new and improved presentation and going back and doing a morecomprehensive review of the changes that we can make. Align with similar lines as director rennie, I guess when I think about light rail nd of course, i'm at the tail end of mountain view, I think about where lightrail goes and how patterns have changed over time since the beginning when light rail was first built and i'll give an example, there's a station at nasa and my understanding is I think maybe we get one hundredpeople there a day or we're not. And it that been the middle of nowhere, so we as a city have had to figure out how to connect it to the current job center areas. So, my question -- yeah -- is, will e be able to look at that -- is there a possibility of moving where the station locations are? Like, we have one -- for instance, if we moved that nasa station maybe a half a mile, it would be controlled to one of our job centers? Is there that flexibility in this plan? And then the other, I guess, question is, as you know, we have done our own study on automated guided transit and s, it wouldn't be replacing -- maybe it wouldn't be replacing the light rail, but is there a way to add, to extend by using these other technologies?9:49 AMI'm going to let jason speak to this, but some of the question you have about stations and I know in the downtown, we're looking at that. Do we consolidate or change? That's a possibility. One of the things is to take a look at capital projects that would support -- that would support the operations better. And help with ridership. Those would be things that we're taking a look at. We're looking at a turn turn-back so we can server, be able to serve bart differently and maybe in a different way, so those are different thing we'retaking a look at to support that effort. Jason, do you want to have --9:50 AMBack to what caroline was saying, we want to consider capital projects we think would reduce ongoing operating costs so if there's change to station that's have been brought up earlier today, I think we'rewilling to look at all those items. I think specifically in key areas like that area with our areas of focus. Also just note that we we've been working with (indiscernible) on that agency study and so, we're happy to continue connecting with them on it. I'm not sure how applicable that is specifically to ini object, -- it's a big connection to us for the mountain view area.For that study, you know, one of the possibilities, a question I had was whether we can create a connection from the nasa station, north bayshore. Because that's a challenge. North bayshore is our station, but wehave no transit to get there. I believe there was a light rail study and would have to go pac back to that, but oing back to what director montano was saying, how do we get to job center and actually, in relation to that, a long time ago, I remember double checking the mountain view section and we had a big t and little t and should was ten years ago and I what excited about express service to mountain view, but I don't think it ever happened and i'm wondering what happened there and is there a possibility of that -- for those types of changes occurring to speed up service, so you know, we can get -- someone mentioned stops.9:51 AMI agree with you. I think there's a lot of opportunities there. You know, that's an area, does light ail serve that area best and we want to connect to the main system, but can something be done differently. We don't know -- or the mountain view sation. I think light rail want to get there. Does it stay where it is to do that? I don't know. How o we make the connection because the north bayshore system, we'll work withyour staff on that. Each of these areas are different than the other ones, but here's a -- there are some synergies and that's what we have to take a look at, so. . . .9:52 AMGreat, thank you so much.Thank you. director lee. go ahead and take yourself off mute. Already. We'll come back to director lee. Oh!We'll come back --Oh, i'm sorry. I was just -- sorry, I was on another phone call. Sorry about that. The question I have is, I guess it's more from a mental question and i've said this when the first light rail was built. Thank you for your great work and coming up with the system in silicon valley. One question I have a concern about is how slow light rail is in downtown and why they didn't think of getting underground or at least gradeseparated so we would go a lot faster? The reason it's so slow because crossing so many streets and the cars that we see almost daily, they drive to 1 and second street especially second street where a lot of people get confused with the roadway and the light rail, so -- we were talking about capital project, is it feasible to get the grade separation in place for some of the lation so we can see the movement of light rail in the downtown area? Just a thought to throw out. Thank you.9:54 AMThank you. director hendricks.Yeah, thanks. some other people had brought this up. I would like to make sure that staff is looking at how they're going to change service. They're taking into account and reaching out to the individual cities to see what plans are along the light rail lines. So sunnyvale has two station in the moffett park area and some people are concerned those used to be the two highest boarding lines with all the people at the byes inmoffett park and right now it's not. The city of sunnyvale is looking to update its moffett park specific plan and putting 20,000 housing units in that specific area. Mostly because of the ability that the light rail line go through there, which is going to change the whole pattern of usage of what goes on. And I just want to make sure that when we talk about how we want to change, you know, change service for light rail, we take into account how cities are planning around the light rail service and you know, I would hate to be in a spot where sunnyvale's plan for light rail and all of a sudden light rail isn't going to be what we thought it was going to be, so please keep that in mind.9:55 AMOne of the things I want to mention and I think we'll work with each city because if you look at our basic model, it doesn't have the thing that the cities are looking at now in terms of land uses. It's notincorporated into the base regional model that we have. But I do think that one of the thing also is giving us, do we do flexibility right now where we don't run light rail during certain times of the day and we run buss and build it back up. Do we get rid of the infrastructure? Those are the things we're going to be looking at for a short-term as well.9:56 AMI think that's great if I can add, you know, sometimes we go ahead and put housing or businesses somewhere and say, let's try and get public transit to go there and it is just an example in sunnyvale where public transit is there and we're rying to put the housing where it is to take advantage of it, so thank you.Direct montano.Thank you, chair. yeah. I wanted to follow up on director abe-koga about that one second where it's like a no man's land 3 and people have to drive there to get to work, but perhaps and i'm lad with calroline'sleadership, you have talked about -- about technologies and perhaps that's an area we can look into new technology that's out there to help the employee, employers get to and from work. Yeah, that's what I wanted to mention. I also had he opportunity to attend the akta conference a couple of weeks ago. This is an opportunity because I know that the biden administration have given trillions to different agencies to do more mass transit, think of more transportation opportunities and I think that would -- we need to startlooking into different technologies, so that way we can move people around because the population is growing. Gas prices are rising. People are going to be using more and more mass transit in the future and Ithink we need to start setting that foundation into doing that, so those are my thoughts. Thank you.9:58 AMI just want to comment because I think it's a really good point that she brings up about trying to look at, you know, what we're doing and what technologies are out there. I think what's also important to see s how are we connecting to light rail? Sometimes we don't have the connections to get people there or to get hem back to, you know, to that first and last mile they all it. We do have the program for 'measure b,' but we might be able to find really important projects with the cities or other connections, other corridors that maybe help drive those connections and get people to be able to use public transportation or masstransportation because they know they'll be able to get to their job or home or their appointment.I hear you on that. just a 3 philosophical comment, if we really -- when you think about it, we want people to use mass transit. We got to give them a tax incentive. That right there is -- it's a tax write-off. That's really another way to get people to use mass transit. Anyway. Just food for thought. Thank you.9:59 AMThank you. director liccardo.Thank you, chair jones. really good questions from my colleagues. He wanted to follow -- I wanted to follow up on a few. Do you have a sense on order of magnitude, caroline whashgs -- what it would cost to move a light-rail station? We would move it closer to where the job might be and obviously get higher ridership that way? Is that a cost in the order of million, tens of million, what does that look like?Well, have I to say, can tell you utah dollars, it's not what it is here because we --I'll take utah dollars and we can roundup.10:00 AMI would have to say -- it was roughly, it was somewhere around $10 million.We say 20?[laughter]I have to say it was fairly cheaper because we built a station in the middle of our line and it was roughly $3 million, but cost and everything in the silicon valley, it would be around ten.Ten million, okay.You can probably answer that questionThat's a good sense of order of magnitude. What are we spending now to extend the line along east ridge and it's four hundred million all in, right?Yes.I'm try to remember how long that extension is. Two miles, i'm trying to remember.It's roughly two and a half mile, I believe.Tso two ju--Could you help me understand why we chose (indiscernible) and cost per rider in make this presentation?10:01 AMSure. our focus was focus more on the cost side of this and so, we wanted to take -- not focus on the ridership numbers. Ms. Caroline mentioned we have efforts to increase our ridership that are kind of partof this discussion, but not the discussion we wanted to have today. So we wanted to focus on the cost parts.I think what we wanted to do is have the board have knowledge about what's driving our cost internally and we might look -- on the systems evaluations and that's where we'll start to look at cost per rider across different thing that we could do and way we can drive it, so I think once we start getting into the analysis of the system, that's probably where we'll see more, that's where we'll see that and we want to look at what the city was doing as well. So that cost per rider, we just wanted the board today tounderstand the efforts that we -- stepping pack and -- stepping back and what internally is driving our cost and we have the ridership piece nd looking at the system because the cost of rider will make decisions about how long do we run light rail and do we not run light rail at certain time in the evening. Do we run it long now or do markets not need it. 310:02 AMThank you. if we were to go back to that chart where we were comparing ourselves to other cities and agencies on a cost per hour, i'm uessing since we have pretty low ridership, the cost per rider would be worse, is that a fair assumption?Yeah. that's a fair assumption. There's a lot different way to look at these metrics, i'll note that. If welooked at cost per mile of service because we're a faster system, our cost per mile looks better than it would on this chart. If we go back a couple of more --10:03 AMThe chart i'll eferring to is -- yeah, that's it.Right.So, I guess -- I appreciate that focus was reducing cost and we have to take these issues in bite size pieces and there's smaller question that's have to be asked, but i'm focused on the bigger question, which is, are we riding the right force here? And I guess, when we think about where a hockey puck is going andI really agree with director hendricks's state that I think this is coming out faster than three to seven years and waiting for seven year, this will be passed us because we would have had to connect to replacingtechnology and we're stuck with it. I'm a little concerned that we're not thinking a bit more about how these costs really materialize in the real world and going back to the chart you were just showing, comparing the cost of a bus verses light rail, I know that outside of levi stadium, the occasional arena, Idon't think any of us have seen 120 people on a light rail car before or a set of cars. It doesn't happen routinely, so i'm trying to understand if the goal is- i'm sorry, the goal is you're trying to build a system to approve and you're anticipating there's going to be lots of jobs around the light rail. That's one set ofassumption, but I would imagine a future proof system would have to think about the question thatdirector abe-koga asked and director rennie asked and how are we going to get this to other job centers and the system we have is expensive to expand and it's expensive to be nimble and try to adjust it to where the development is. Certainly, the vta could take a much more aggressive stance in developmentand tell folks what to build so advance the system, but that's not what we have done in the past. Aim trying to understand sort of why we're aligning ourselves with a strategy that says, let's reduce the cost and think about the big question later. I maybe, my recollection was the mtc and I think in 2008 tells all the agencies in the bay area, all 29, you guys to reduce the cost. You got to undertake study and we rolled up our sleeves and worked on ways to reduce cost. We've been doing that all along. So i'm trying tounderstand, if this is something we have been working on for years and years, why do we think the future will be any different if we're still chaining ourself to this system?10:06 AMYou raise good points because one of the questions right now is, can we get this system in line? And with you know, with cost. Because you know, as we start to look at and we have presentations on our fiscalsustainability, those types of things play into it. I think the reason why we want to understand what we're doing is, is there a way to make this system cost effective, a little more cost effective, a lot more costeffective, I guess and not just, you know, just on the ridership, what can we do to support the effort and bring up the ridership. But that question needs to be -- we need to dig deep into the system, what's going on and other way to get there before you make the decision to make a whole change. There's also technology change in rail vehicle a well. Like next we'll i'll be looking at vehicles that run on battery packs and don't need to be on cat the entire time, so you don't need to build catenary. You can use charging stations and we can look at micro grids that can be supported with buses and so, there's a lot of newtechnologies we need to take a look at. Those types of vehicle are going to be, they're running in new york and they're going to start running in this country. So there are things we can start to look at as well as other rubber tired reeks if that's where we want to go, but we need to look at what's driving our cost today as part of the system.10:07 AMOkay.I agree. I think you're right. The three years, what board member hendricks said, it's true. It's three to seven years to make this decision. Three to seven years to make the decision. So what we want to do is get ourselves as knowledgeable as we can in the next two years to start to decide what the decision isgoing to be and the a lot is where the city is going.I'm never going to argue against analysis. We need to understand more and o better, but i'm not satisfied that we're focusing in the right areas that's going to get us the right answer. For example, this chart what displayed to us and part of the explanation was, we're an expensive area. San francisco is every bit as expensive, if not more expensive in labor cost and look t where they are compared to where we are.There's a lot going on here and if we're a national average, if we did this in a cost per ridership, we would still e at the bottom even if we got a cost at the national average, so we can make marginal improvements and I encourage folks to do what they can to operate more efficiently. Those are good questions o ask for a lot of folks, but bring this question to the board, I think we need to ask bigger questions because marginalimprovements aren't going to change this picture at all. I guess i'm concerned that we're kind of charting a course that says we're going to be satisfied with marginal improvements. If we could go back to that slidethat compares bus and light rail, you know, I mean, first the point has already been made. For most part, overwhelmingly, our system is running in the first of the four scenarios. It's running at 45 passengers per ride. Not 120, or 140 or -- and 360 and we expect more ridership, but that's going to be a long way off and we can adjust the system if we have a nimble enough system. If we're going to be moving towardantinomy, how does that affect the numbers and the bus talks are driven by the labor cost of drivers. You know, I think a really good question was asked -- how do we ake riders longer to get more rider on. Whathappens when antinomy comes to every transit in the country and it appear to happen in the next decade.These are hard conversation to have with our employees, but we should be having them so we can assurethem that no one is going to e left out. They're going to be part of the solution. This isn't going to be a system we're -- where we're trying to fire employees or somehow or another, replace them with machinesbecause we know antinomy is going to require a lot of labor also, but we ought to be bringing them into these conversations early and asking the hard questions and working with them together so we cancodesign something that ensures 3 that everybody stays onboard, everybody continues to get paid what they get paid, but we actually have a system that looks a lot different and performs better han the onewe've got. I'm guessing if you introduce antinomy here and correct me if i'm wrong, but he cost numbers for buses drop because it's all about the operator cost that greatly exceed light rail, is that right?10:11 AMYeah. that point would be correct that buses, cost would get reduced significantly.Yeah. I guess, so I guess my -- the bottom line for me, I don't think we're asking big enough question and i'm concerned we're notsking the right questions and yes, I understand there's large estimates for the capital cost, for example, of converting some of the track to pavement that's would be appropriate for bus,but we have lot of light rain that runs on road today. And not all of that cost an enormous amount of to convert. We can talk about starting at north san jose and talking about what bus 3 lines might look like. I mean, it was a decade and a half ago we were having this conversation about whether or not we wanted to run light rail down santa clara street and moroccan. We agreed it would be a bad idea to keep expanding this system and we know bus route transit provides a better solution and nimble one to help us be futureproof so if we have to change the routes, we can move the system to get to where the riders are and I thought that was the right approach. I'm curbed that we're focused on the small questions now rather thanasking big ones while working on the efficient improvements. I'll stop talking nd i'm sorry to take up so much time. Thank you.10:12 AMThank you. director chavez.Hank you. I wanted to start with one of the last points that sam raised that I thought was really critical.And that is that, you know, for a long time, at least since i've been on the board, there's been this realreluctance to engage the lines staff in discussions about technology and the future of transportation. And I think that you know, as we start to redevelop the culture of the organization and redevelop ur organization overall, but this is a perfect opportunity to, in a deep and meaningful way, engage the line staff in answersall the questions raised today. Everything relative to the, as carter described, small questions about why x cost more than x and what our comparison is to the next organization, but the bigger question picture iswhat are the -- the emerging opportunities and what is herful for the organization and our riders. So, one request that I would make is that the board get an off agenda report on how the line staff employees are going to be integrated into the next phase of work. How they have been integrate and how they'll be integrated into the next phase of work, so that's one request. And carolyn, i'll look to you to see what your think is on that?10:14 AMI agree. that's one of the reasons why -- you know, I will a that I did talk to john and courtney before this meeting to let them know and where we're going and we would like to do some -- to move forward on some of these analysis. We'll need to work closely -- one of the thing, for example, they're participating that the parks tas task force.10:15 AMThat's great.We'll bring forward morrow [multiple voices]Concrete definition.The point you're making since you have started, you'll give us an off an gentleman agenda in answering these question.Yes.I want to toggle between the big picture and the, you know, kind of what we see on ground. I think we need to say to all our colleagues is one of the challenges that we have with buses is that buses are on thesame routes as cars. And so, when we're looking at speed and we're looking at capacy that -- and that we have opinions about bus rapid transit up and down the main spine of our transit program that I do thinkthat whatever the benchmarks are for what we want to invest in, that you know, ridership and speed have to be a key component of that, otherwise, we're sort of trading off one, frankly not to move faster than the other, so I think that's really important and one thing I would say to our team is that, I think it's really important to be able to do these kinds of comparisons, but when you look at capacity, we are also reallydriven and it's hard to do this post 2020, but we're driven at where we see the increase in utilization. Like, where can we get more passengers? Because the capacity is sort of -- it's a real metric, but it doesn'tmean that -- it doesn't mean that's utahzation -- that's utilization. E need to recognize that we've beenlooking at smaller buses because we're taking these neighborhood routes and you know, as we'rerestructuring our system, we are looking at different tools, so I think, whatever charts we show, we're going to have to figure out a way to include utilization as a key component of where we want to -- where we want to be and get to. Just -- the other thing, i'm really interested in, again, this is kind to togglebetween a big picture and smaller picture, I really want to make sure as the deer station is being built out, light rail, it's property whether it's light rail today or some future technolog technology, it has to beprioritized and I haven't seen a report to come back to the board saying this is is what we're do and we're be missing an opportunity. The reason is the board, not just me, but other board members have raised thisover the last four years and I still haven't seen it, a document that says, here's the options that we're looking at as it relates to eer dawn station and light rail. I don't know if something like that exist now orwhere that is in process.10:18 AMI think on that last point, i'll note that the deer dawn light-rail station will be a part of that light rail studywe're moving forward with, so it will incorporate a lot of those stops.10:19 AMJason, the problem I have, we have been thinking about that for a while and the planning is happening, so what I would like to recommend is that if we're serious about seeing whether or not this is an opportunity,which I think it is, I think we need to formally vta, make that a formal action so it's currently being discussed because right now that's going to be laid out without it and you know, to be honest with you,this go into the category of no excuses. Right. That's going to be done and we're going to say we have an idea about light rail and that will, that's going to be really wrong on a lot of levels so I would just ask if weneed to bring this back to the board as a referral, i'm happy to do that, if the staff is going to be prepared to do that, fine. That need to go to the vta and other partner asking for consideration for routes throughthe, through that station or utilization hrough that station. And I don't know what the next best step is on that.10:20 AMI'll take a look at that. that's a good point. There's been discussion on pulling it to the other station ask that's something you want to look at and we've been talking about strong connections into that in the future, so I think we might need to speed that up ahead of time. I agree.Yeah. and would just, I think this reflects back on the point that supervisor lee raised about you know, how silly are e going to look if we miss an opportunity. We should dive in there and make our needs met orknown. And then the last point I wanted to raise is that, you know, I think the point carolyn that you talked about with technology availability and what we anticipate seeing in the future is an interesting point and I think this was mayor carter who made mention of this a few meetings ago that we want to make sure that we're looking at emerging technology that's viable and real and what is of concern to me and I genuinelydon't know the answer to this, what's happening around the globe relative to this kind of rail product and I think it's -- it's a rail product in between heavy, light, medium light and I know that different states haveeven different rules about what they call light rail, so that's a way of, a long way of saying that as emerging technology become available, we should have one of the boards committee to get updated on what we see so folks can understand how the decisions we're making in the interim and I think this isanother point that mayor carter raised, impact long-term and where there maybe opportunities to pivot that we don't see today. And so, I know we have, you know, whatever the capital committee is, it make sense to have those discussions and again, i'm assuming all of this will be happening with our workforce and but I think there's a lot of value in knowing what is coming down the pike and what isn't available.Colleagues, we had a discussion about the, our care transit vehicles and you know, I was surprised to learn that there's no electric versions of vehicles we're using and we've been trying to go grown and we'rebuying new vehicles that's not green because there's othing -- there's no green vehicles available.[laughter] so, I think those discussions are just really critical to have the board, so the board is reallyaware of what the opportunities are. And colleagues, thank you for indulging me.10:23 AMThank you. director liccardo.I just appreciate the comments of supervisor chavez. I want to clarify something about the buss and i'm not suggesting that we would plant light rail with buses rub with traffic. The two great assets of vta has agreat workforce and exclusive right-of-way. All that exclusive right-of-way is moving eople and the question is, can we use that exclusive right-of-way and deploy our great workforce to move people differently and if the buses aren't an exclusive right-of-way, they're going to be moving fast and out oftraffic. Frankly, it's the exclusive right-of-way that we can make happen much ore nimbly if we can address the questions that director raised, how do we get this right rail to ore places? It's not going to happen nimbly. I think we need to think about how we create a system that's future proof. Which means we can be more nimble in the routes and we can move people much more effectively and that's all emerging.10:24 AMYeah. just to follow up, if I can, through the chair, I think sam, you and I are in agreement with that. I'm concerned about the way the charts look to the public, but hank you.Right. yeah. fair enough. fair point.Thank you. director lee.Is that me, lee?10:25 AMYes.Okay, thank you so much, chair. Sorry about that. I appreciate the comments that were made before me.And I appreciate that there's going to be a cost task force, but I really want to be sure that the cost task force is realistic in what we can do to modify existing rails because earlier in the report, it talked about, if we needed to fill the current system, how much it cost to -- and having it become a bus line again, it would take 60 years to recoup. But we have to be realistic n cost. I'm concerned about the estimates that we willbe given. I think we should look at ther states that have implemented systems that the cost went way out of line, such as the hawaii rail system. What once was costing 400 million is 12 to 4$4 billion. 12 to $4 billion. Need to clear clear estimates and clear options and the estimates of these options before us. And I think what happens is if it takes a long time to implement as well, that system in itself might become ant gated and we need to make sure products become future proof and we have to understand the timeline through which we are expecting this system to be implemented. Thank you.10:26 AMThank you. director paul.Thanks, chair. so, I just wanted to briefly say that I think this is a great and important discussion and I agree with all sentiments shared here. We need to future proof this system and build out a system that's effective and make it as fast as possible. I know it's not going to be easy or cheap, but you know, we can do the work to try and figure out, perhaps starting with deer dawn station and and what the transit systems will look like and not just node, but the other systems. Another line to point out with regard toechnology and if we're worried about light rail, we should look at the stevens creek corridor and thinking more ambitiously. I don't know if we're talking about elevated or underground or using electro magnet technology or saving energy cost or anything, but we need to look at those opportunities and you know, keep an eye on those if we're really serious about ooking at the future and technology and i'll also put in the plug, for the 85 corridor and the 'measure b' million for the few million dollars, I think we should beserious about that as well because that's a significant component of potential transit. That was a long standing promise and people in the west valleys -- it's supposed to be for transit and we should be lookingat those opportunities. You know, we don't need to step on toes and alienate people in the sense of disenfranchisement or financial opportunity, then let's look to the future and make sure we're planning outthose transitions, so I really don't have, you know, more to add to this really great discussion. Honestly, I think this is the best discussion i've heard in my brief time here, but it's so critically important to the future of our area and of course, it doesn't just implicate the transit system, but ridership like in terms how do we get from point a to point b quickly and you know, get availability of different spaces for people who need those opportunities. So. . . . Thanks.10:29 AMThank yu. director liccardo, you have your and u. I don't know if you want to speak again. Okay, we're going to move on. Next is item 2. 2. An update on the metropolitan transportation commissions network.Manager business case. Scott haywood, deputy director, transit planning and capital development will provide the presentation on this item.Thank you very much, Mr. Cair. if we can go to the first slide, please. Great. The purpose of this item today is to provide the board with an update and to receive any feedback on mtc's efforts to nalyze a transit met work management arrangement. The idea from the management came from the transit task force and it's to better coordinate with transit agencies and ultimately improve the experience for the rider. I last gave an update to the board about a year ago and since that time, mtc conducted preliminary work on the network management work and mtc is entering into a new phase where they'll analyze the risk and -- they eveloped a proposal for a management executive board which we'll be haring with you today. We can go to the next slide, thank, i'm sorry bout that. I thought we were there. The transit network management executive board will be among the alternatives that mtc and their team will be analyzing. To make ourpresentation today, we have rick here. Until recently, rick was the general manager for county connection and being the manager, rick is he immediate past chair of the executive board, mtc partnership nd thecalifornia transit association state and legislative committee. Rick is working with the transit agencies to serve as our technical advisor and represent the transit on this issue. I'll turn it over to rick to give thepresentation.10:31 AMThank you, scott. and thank you, Mr. Chair and members of the board for allowing me to be here to talk briefly about what is going on, particularly as the general manager across the region engage with mtc and other stakeholders on what is cald the network management business case analysis. And as scottmentioned, coming out of the blue ribbon task force, this was setup, this advisory group was setup by mtc that i'll touch on in a minute and it will look at alternative that's were submitted last summer. The operator submitted one through the general managers, the stakeholders, various stakeholders submitted a proposal and of course mtc staff have been working on their own ideas. The key here, I think right now is the executive director of mtc, in a conversation with me last week refers to these as, what's the word she used. She called them model. She's not wanting to look at these competing proposals, but rather models that deserve equal comparison and consideration on a level playing field and i'm encouraged by that on behalf of the general managers and sharice sees it as that. What i'm going to talk about next is go over a few slides about a piece of the operators model, particularly as it relates to the network management board. Next slide, please. So, the advisory group is made up of 14 member, appoind by mtc, 7 transitgeneral manager including your own carolyn and mtc director and six key stakeholders, for example, shall burt is a member. As is labor. I believe represented by the atu. Regional business. This group is going toreceive recommendations from a consultant. The consultant is going to be interacting with various folks including the operators to develop these recommendations over the next several months and we'll provideperiodic updates to the commission and final recommendations slated for a possible action by thecommission in september. Next slide. I think this is critical. The operator is working together and this really builds pon two years of close coordination amongst of the operators at the general manager level nd seniorstaff level. They have come up with a mission statement for the transit network management executive board to be considered in this examination by the consultants and the mission statement is as follows, act as a centralized form and coordinating body for regional transit policy development and network management to improve customer experience advanced equity and increased transit ridership. What I like about this mission statement is it's the general manager acknowledging the need for the operators to work together amongst themselves and with m tv to really focus on improving the customer experience. And I think that's eally critical given your previous discussion about how to make your system more effective and gain more riders and attacking it from a customer perspective is really the way to go and it's going to be helpful on a lot of these issues so I 3 like the mission statement and I hope it receives good consideration at the commission and think as part of my task. Next slide, please. Also, the operator have given a lot ofthought on some objectives that the oard ought to have. To provide structured coordination on regional transit planning. That's really happening today already. The operators meet every monday, the largeproperties, all the gm's and co's meet every Monday and on Tuesday afternoon, all the smaller operators are on the east and northern suburban areas meet once a week. Together, they have talked about how to help mtc implement its transformation action plan. They've adopted this last fall at a workshop last week.There's 27 items10:35 AMThat action plan and it's ambitious, but I think the item was crucial to making transit more effective in the bay area over time. And also to attack immediate thing to be done. The network management board canhelp with ongoing efforts that have started in the area of the 3 fair integration work yunld way and way-finding to help the customer understand how to navigate these various systems and help with transit priority of again, back to your last discussion, how to make buses faster on roadways where they share that road with the car. Next slide, please. Also, based board structure. And the he - operator gm's are calling for a board that takes advantage of the expertise around the region with the various transitoperator general managers and mtc senior staff and bringing along riders and stakeholders who have lot of knowledge about what the customer needs, boot on the ground if you will. It will lever structure andaccountabilities. What's critical about that is if you do that, you can advance working immediately. You don't have to rebuild governance structures, which could take many years. It's a complicated subject torebuild those governance, so how do you operate the existing structures and move forward. Next slide, please. So, that goes to decision-making and the general managers are calling for a network management board that would allow the existing transit boards to retain their authorities. It will be consensus based, but there would be a majority executive vote when needed. Decisions would advance to m ttc or board asappropriate. Mtc will maintain its regional policy and funding under this recommendation. And then the agency boards of course need to maintain their authorities relative to fares because they're held accountable and in some cases under law they're held accountable to that and it impacts your budget inhow you allocate your funds relative to your local service needs as you see fit, that needs to continue. Next slide. And so finally here, the proposal calls for a board collaborative process and it lay the groundwork with the existing bodies. It incorporates technical expertise through the general managers and senior staff that already meet in weekly committee meetings and seeks to engage diverse perspective and it calls for an advisory council to be formed that's formal and provides a meaningful need for and participation to be advised on concerns and et cetera that would fall under the network management process. And I think at this point, that is -- have I one more slide I would like to touch on, yes. So, i've mentioned as briefly just aminute ago, there are a nber of working groups, subcommittees, operator groups, et cetera, that are working weekly in addition to these general managers and feed the collaborative process that already exist present mtc and the operators and has strengthened over the last two years. The proposal from theoperators as all the ther models or proposals call for groups that's formalized and established as needed to work on the various issues that might fall under the network management board. And the operators are calling for public transparency and regular reporting including to mtc and regular public meetings thatwould be noticed and public would be invited to participate fully. And I think with that, scott, i'm going to turn it back to you.10:40 AMThanks very much, rickful I wanted to touch on the next steps. April, mtc and their consultant will be working on the scoping, due to existing conditions and alternative. Or model refinement s rick described.They'll do the analysis that's going to go through July and then hey hope to have some recommendations in august and september. So aggressive schedule we'll be working with them on that. I'd like to conclude with a couple of additional comments. First of all, I think it's important to note that vta is a single agencyand we do cover 25% of the population and trips made in santa clara county begin and end in our county and pre-pandemic, nearly 88% of all santa clara commuters began and ended their commute in santa clara. Most riders don't need to transfer to another system as we're one agency in this county. So localtrips are clearly our bread and butter, however, regional trips are important and we have demonstrated our commitment to regional services through how bart and cal trains and ace and other services like dunn bartexpress. The second item I want to mention is mtc is committed to funding these regional efforts as rick just described. As mtc was going through their allocation process for their funds, they set aside $835million to help -- $85 million to help with the transit funds. In conclusion, I would like to mention the purpose of this meeting is provide an update from my last presentation about a year ago. And it's to receive your feedback, specifically e would like to hear your reaction to the idea of regional transit network manager as a general concept and then we would like to get your reactions to the operators proposal that we've just outlined. We would like to hear if you prefer the network manager not be focused by the transit operators, but by another agency and how comfortable you would be in giving some authority to a newregional agency om -- agency of mtc. We would look forward to receiving feedback that you have and answering questions. Back over to you, Mr. Chair.10:42 AMThank you, scott and rick. we'll take public comments. Rainey, do we have hands raisedYes, we have a couple. and for the record, I want to ote that the seamless bay area, silicon valley independent living and friends of culturing have submitted their public comment and are already postedonline. Also, Mr. Mayor, what we received earlier, it will be calling on ms. Adena. P. -10:43 AMMy name is adena and I serve on the advisory body for this study in my role on the policy advisory council as well in the san jose area and I would, somewhat dismayed to see this presentation. I'm glad to hearabout the importance of transportation action plan for vta and the discussion about the importance of connections in the previous presentation about ridership. However, this presentation today talked about a study that will be looking at multiple onlys and the study presented to board has one option. Last week, members of bart and ac transit boards asked to see all options. And I would urge you to ask to see all ofthe ptions before expressing an opinion. Thank you.10:44 AMNext speaker, eugene, you May begin speaking when your -- when you're ready.I'll come back to you. Mr. Beekman. please unmute and begin speaking.Hi. blare beekman here. to speak really quickly. I'm interested in the work, how we can, what we do to make open and clear of a future of high-speed rail and how it can be a benefit and connect to all bay areacounties and as we prepare for the year 2023 and '24 in the bay area, it's open business practices to make it easier to create open dialogue and set goals for the public community, health and safety and care, and to be considered in the next few years. We can talk about openness and accountability for all of us. It's good positive practices, thank you.10:45 AMThank you. eugene, unmute and begin speaking.Yes, can everybody hear me?Yes.This is eugene bradley, silicon valley founder. I echo ms. Levins comments regarding that the fact (indiscernible). Earlier, we talked about board members -- we talked about limiting the options. This is why things are the way they are now because we're presented with that most one option of doing anything and it's usually not always the best option. Bart (indiscernible), vrt lanes. We need to better have all theoptions available because if we want to have better connections for passengers especially interagency, we have to change things. I know it's not comfortable. Changes is always necessary because a system thatdoesn't change is a dying system and right now, i'm seeing (indiscernible). We've got to change. Ask for all options and then make a decision, thank you.10:46 AMThat's the last speaker we have, Mr. Chair.Thank you. we will close public comment. Any questions from colleagues. I see director peralez.Thank you, Mr. Chair. thank you for the update and I was interested in this work as it has progressed and i'm supportive of having a better integrated system regionally and even if that means locally, each agency having to give up some local authority, but being able to just work more collaboratively as a region, weknow so many of our riders are not combined to one system -- confined to one system or segment of our region and really navigating and hopping in between different providers, it's proven challenging and I have done so myself traversing just the bay area. I'm very supportive of it, but I too, i'm concerned because -- on the work and the recommendations and I do recognize we are getting a preferred option or preferredalternative here and wanted to see similarly to the public comment and other agencies about a comparison and where our board will have an opportunity to weigh out what the other options were and be able to provide some feedback verses simply, you know, have a comment on this one preferred alternative. I wanted to see if staff could respond to that10:48 AMSure, thank you member peralez. We can do that. We wanted to get the transit management network board to everyone and this is something we as staff have been working on with the transit agencies for along time. So we wanted to and if it's implemented, we can change the way we do business as well. We wanted to make sure we get that out to our board and that's what all of -- most of the transit areas are doingful as we move forward and we do he analysis, we can certainly bring that back to this board orcommittee or whatever would work best and talk about how they're bring progressing and bring it to this board. There's no decision eing made. We're not asking you to recommend, ut we're hoping to get mprematerial -- we want to get impressioned and bring it back. You can see the alternatives and how theycompared the criteria being developed.10:49 AMYeah, thank you for that. and you know, feedback and I think it's positive, but I also think that allowing the board to have some feedback on the other alternatives would be positive as well. I think, i've mentioned, I do appreciate this and I do think this is the direction we need to go so I think e're moving in the rightdirection, but certainly I know there have been some other alternatives, not only discussed through this process, but there's other alternative to look to throughout the country and in and around the world inregard to how different agencies in one region can work better together in different models so I look forward to staff continuing to, I think, monitor and then update the board on what those options are, butoverall, thank you for the presentation and certainly, appreciating the direction we're going. That's it, thanks, chair.10:50 AMThank you. director chavez.Thank you. just a couple of things. First, I wanted to say to the staff, thank you and thank you for thinking about the alternatives and as a member of the mtc board, you know, have not felt that we havenecessarily seen alternatives to the presentations that have been given to the board, maybing the blue ribbon commission has a way they want to proceed, so I think better understanding all option was mportant and I do agree with my colleagues. I think being able to compare and the pros and cons of each of our entities is important. With that said, just a couple of question about the model that you're prproposing and i'm not sure if you're the right person to ask, but could one of you describe the biggest difference between what you're presenting to us and what the blue ribbon commission is presenting to our board?10:51 AMSure. i'll take a crack at it and rick, if you want to jump in at any time. The main difference would be this would be be -- the network executive board that we're proposing would be run by the transit operators.They would meet firmly together, but that's the entity to make decisions and would work to integrate the things we want to integrate at the regional level. So that's where the group would be. It would be that that group would look at different things. The gm's of the transit operators, they would make recommendations and they would then come back to their own board, in some cases and some thing they can decide together. Underneath a network manager idea that mtc and others have looked at, that's a new body that would therefore debate the issue and look at the issues and how we can better integrate and they would pass those recommendations down or depending on the recommendations, they could be requirements down to the transit agencies, than to put together. Rick, do you want to add to that?10:52 AMNo, scott. I think you've described that pretty well. I think the key distinction is in the model being put forward by the general managers, it's still -- it still has -- he transit operators are working together and perhaps required to work together to generate the things that move onto mtc and the operators, where some of the other approaches might be -- they'r developed in a new arena whether it's mtc or standalonebody and iven to the operators although there's operators in that participation. Both models are operators are involved. The key difference is the starting point and who is generating the ideas verses responding to them.10:53 AMAnd rick, can you explain a little bit, the similarities to the clipper board because we have a clipper ticket hat's with the transit operators. It's not --Sure.The beginning experts of clifford to move it with the general manager.10:54 AMSure. if I may, I will throw out a second comparison. The clifford executive board was born out a set of circumstances focused on payments and having a regional ticket. And that's the general managers came together with the executive director of mtc and hashed out to form the clifford executive board anddevelop its charter and its way of operation and then the mou's between operators and mtc and so, with everything clipper, it goes to the clipper executive board and once the clipper executive board has donesomething, whether it goes to mtc and it's a two-step process. The fair integration study happened recently. It's ckomen aged by bart -- co-managed by bart. They have reported to a fair integrated task force that's made up of representative of folks from around the region and that's worked well in getting forward now a set of recommendations on fair integration o be further delve into o see how quickly it canbe implemented and what are the issues that have to be overcome for the recommendations. And it's similar to what the -- locked at by the consultant and mtc. And --10:55 AMColleagues, I think a couple of things that I want to reinforce. One is that, you know, as we think about thepartnership we have with mtc and I think the importance of what the community stepped up and talked a lot about is how do we have, you know, a seamless experience for people on the ground. That's really critical. I als think that we need to be mindful f the investments that, as a region, that we're make andwhat investments should be coming to each community and how the investments are, for a lack of a better word, being redistributed and I want to go to an idea that scott said -- if you look at mtc governance andthe way resources are spent, we've had a very difficult time getting oney back to the county. Now, I just want to say as a region, I recognize that that's not all -- that many instances, being able to share assets and resources makes a lot of sense. But when it is being done to us and not necessarily with us, is when I have a concern and it does feel to me like the direction that mtc is going in right now, that would be a bigger barrier for us as a region, as a south bay region than perhaps it is today and part of the reason i'm excited that the general managers are coming up with an alternative is that everybody and I think in the spirit of collaboration, they have really been work with the blue ribbon commission to try and get these new structures of governance thought through. With that said, I don't know that everybody spoke up and they should have and so I really want to appreciate that having an alternative means that riders are going to have an option that could be utilized or one that will influence that which finally get across the finishline, so thank you carolyn and rick and others for really diving in and doing that work. The other thing i'll mention, colleagues is that we had to work really hard through, I think through senator bell and mayor liccardo can remind us of this, even to get a seat on the board for mayor liccardo and even with that, they added more seats to other folks so that it's not represented by population. The board of mtc and it's not -- you know, there's no, I maybe, frankly when we were going to look at governance, we probably shouldhave looked at prior to coming up with this network manager approach. With all that said, I want to make one point as it relates to mtc and the general manager there, I really do believe that their intent and the blue ribbon's intent is do a better job of serving the public. The real question is, what's the best tool to do that? And how do we make sure that as we're really trying to be part of the solution, meaning the south bay really improving transit ridership and improving access, how are we participating in a way that allow us both to serve our customers to be accountable to the voter here because we're a self-help county which is important and also to be part of this integrated regional approach? And I think those are the tool, I maybe the benchmarks i'm using to measure whether or not I think what mtc is trying to do makes sense for the region. So, anyway. Thanks, staff and thank you colleagues.10:59 AMThank you. director hendricks.Yeah, hank you. so, as I look at this, there's two pieces of this network manager. One is that there's going to be this new thing that exist and it's going to do something. And the second question is how we go about structure and what it's going to look like? And I want to leave second question alone and go back to the first part. There's a new network manager and could somebody try and explain to me, what would be thepractical implication or change to vta? And scott, maybe partially said this and said it's going to make decisions on integration and possibly even issues directives we need to do. So, i'm trying to under if there's something overall of this, how does our life change?11:00 AMThat's a terrific question. I think it could change in a lot of different way. As i've mentioned, there's going to be funding that's going to be associated to this. For instance, the egion or the network manager should tend to emphasize maybe a transfer in an area, we might be required for instance to run more transitservice to better connect rather than have the transit service where we think it might belong. This is a hypothetical. It's those types of situations, I think, where they would be saying, here's how we think wecan work better as a region for regional passengers and then we might have to follow suit with our financial decision, where we go. It might also be things such as different types of signage or even fares. If one thing becomes integrated fares, in a certain way, that's something where our board would no longer have the authority to set our own fares but that's something this regional body might do and we'll have to react. It could be -- those are just hypothetical ways I could see it with my change, but i'm happy to see if carolyn or rick have thoughts.11:01 AMI hate to belabor the point. those are things we need to understand. Already at a regional level, we have changed our service hours structure to -- to align better with bart as it comes down into our county. Imean, so we're trying to do those things. With the whole fare integration thing, the big piece has always been does santa clara money stay in santa clara and does san jose money stay in san jose. I'm looking for more clarity on what the practical thing whose be to us because that's what's going to, you know, make a difference of how I can support this and if that's a relevantly good question that I should ask -- if that's a really good question I should have, I hope in future presentations that's one of the question that gets answered first because of other piece I wanted to ask about this, what's the definition of success? I heargeneric terms that we want better fare integration and we want more service and better wayfaring, but s anybody looking at, if and when this is implemented, ten years after it's done, how do we know if it's a good thing? Has anybody looked into that?11:03 AMI think it's still kind of early in the process for what they think it's going to be. I think we've been saying that too and I think different county might have different definitions of what success might look like for their passengers and for their citizens, so I think that's something that is going to have to be worked out if this does move forward because I think what success for us might be different than in other parts of the county. 3I would suggest, I would think rather than saying we're going to do it and then we'll define success criteria because that's going to -- whatever the biggest issue, they're going to find success for them. It might be better if we're able to better define and maybe not completely of what is success, so maybe that could help define what it is you want it to be. I just, you know, so that's where i'm at. I mean, you asked a question here. Do you think network manager is a good idea or bad idea? It's hard for me to say right now without being able to have a better understanding what the practical implementations are and the definition f success and supervisor chavez was talking about how do we deal with governance and representation and the last piece, I would love to see a better description of roles and responsibilities. You know, and how much you know, how much, I don't want to get into the local control discussion, but how much authority and responsibility will the network manager have in being able to direct something to a different agency and what is their accountability to that working or not working? Those are the details I would love tounderstand more of. I under we might not be there to have it all yet, but it seem to me those thing should be worked on sooner rather than later. I hope that all made sense.11:05 AMIt does make sense. go ahead, carolyn.I think it makes sense. it is different because how people measure success is differently and rick can speak to this as well. There's 25, 26 operator in the bay area. You know, we -- we're very lucky n our county that we're just one large operator. But so the question for us successes might not be where we are. The other question is the funding. How did you the funding get allocated? And the first $85 million is coming out of the covid relief fund so that's new money, but is that going to contain? And that's something we need to worry about. We also don't want, because we're one arge agency, our trips stay internal and we support regional travel, but at the same time, we don't want to take resources away from those important local trips which is often time where the essential, those who need transit take the most. So there's a whole focus for us that we're engaged in. And I think, as transit operators, I think that's a part of the proposal was to have those discussions and we're very respectful what each of us have to do to run our agencies and understand there's complications that come with it and our boards and funding resources andeverything, so I think that's one of the main reasons why we have been working very hard towards a, you know, a description, wanting to coordinate together. We see the efforts but don't know -- the problem is, how do we -- which of that structure is now placed in a discussion having an overall manager network.11:06 AMLong-term operation funding components of what this means and not being given unfunded mandates, you know, of how things go. So, you've gotten my points. I'm not opposed. I jst, it seems to me there's a lot ofthese critical things that need to be pfront in the discussion and not on the backside because then it's going to be too late to do. I'll stop there. Thanks very much. It's really interesting discussion.11:07 AMThank you. director abe-koga.Thank you chair and thank you for this presentation. I've been on mtc for the last year and I have some knowledge or understanding of it. I'll start with questions. Given that the study is, I think, concluding inthe next few months, can I ask, what brought the gm's to bring out his preferred alternative now? And then second question to that is, what criteria did you use to come up with this preferred alternative?11:08 AMMaybe i'll start and carolyn or rick want to ump in, please do. This alternate, last year 3 when mtcbn moved into this direction, we had this idea at the same time. It wasn't very -- we haven't spent as much time on it as we would have liked. What happened was mtc did some my level analysis and after that --some high level analysis and we took our proposal to worked on it. It's time to release it and it worked out well because mtc is starting their second phase. This is their second phase which is beginning now. What we looked at in terms of criteria for how we were putting this together, how can we use the technicalexpertise of our staff and use the experience that each of us has because as i've mentioned, in one large agency, it's different than having three smaller agencies within a county or something like that. So, wereally thought that relying on each operators expertise of how to deliver service would really be beneficial for moving a network management idea for the agencies that are actually putting the service on thestreets, they should have a very -- should be the onesy -- should be the ones working to get this done. We should be working as closely as we can as transit agencies, but what we can do to better serve the customer. That's something we all want to do. And since the pandemic, s rick mentioned that, the transitgm's meet once a week to better coordinate and that's something that's really great. So it's really formalizing this and building on what we already put together.11:10 AMRick, do you want to add to that inYeah. you know, so I was there at the beginning of mtc putting together the blue ribbon task force and right from the start, one of the things that mtc wanted to get at with the blue ribbon task force was thisconcept of network management and governance and how it might be attacked through the blue ribbon task force and they had an ambitious and full agenda and short timeframe of which to get their work on and they've spent the first third of their time wrestling with how transit was responding to the initial stagesof the pandemic. And those, you May all recall that in the early days in 2020, march, april, juan, the transit operator were scrambling to maintain services to deal with the sudden changes that covid brought upon us, some operators struggled to get ppe, just find it from supplier in early day, all those thing so the blue ribbon task force took a focus on that. In part, at the urging of members of the public who showed up at the blue ribbon task force and said this has to be a part of your work as the first wave of the pandemicsubsided during the summer of and fall, the operators began to talk about t regularly in an it is pa-- regularly in anticipation of what what going to have. If this was going to have a chance of having success and help design what success look like as has been mentioned, the operators have to use their technical expertise to work together to help guide this and help provide this input, so when this thing does get to the end, we have hopefully a good result that's implementable that respect the fact there's 27 operators with independent boards and each county has different kinds of funding. Santa clara is an independent and so is contra costa. They're having similar discussions. How is this going to interact with our local funding versesregional. I continue to be available to her as a contra costa commissioner. there's a lot of similar issues being discussed in that county as we've heard today in santa clara. So, it has been evolving and think it will continue to evolve. I think there's a lot of momentum behind having network management to help the region have a better regional system and hold each other accountable. The goal for the participates isrespect the fact that there's individual agencies with fiduciary responsibilities to taxpayers.11:13 AMGreat, thank you so much for reminding me. The genesis of all this and the evolution of the blue ribbon task force's work and the piece was coming together again. And so just some comments. I do appreciate staff bringing this forward now. It's something that's talked about constantly at mtc, but i've had the concern that our local agencies and our local boards, vta board May not e as aware of what's going on, o thank you for bringing this forward. I do appreciate the gm's proposal. I've een in my short time on mtc, sometimes we don't hear from everyone. There are more vocal voices than others and then I find out later that you know, what we're being told is not necessarily the sentiment of our transit agencies, so I think it's really important that we do hear from the operators because they're frankly the ones who are doing impleinand utting these strategies into place and I think you know, I definitely agree with director chavez'scomments and sheayst much more eloquently than I do, but would I have gathere what I have gathered over my short time, the challenge here and it what brought up, I think we're trying to do a one size fits allapproach, but the reality is we are not a one size fits all ar you know, 27 agencies is a lot and coming in, Ithought, request can't we just consolidate, but every time I ask about a certain agency and why don't you consolidate with this other one, I was thinking tracksity operators in a different city or county, sanfrancisco, what if every county went down to one agency kind of like vta, that would cut down quite a bit, but then I hear from that region why they can't do that. So, it's eally not that easy as you know, it mightseem. I definitely appreciate and we're all in agreement that we do want to serve our riders, serve our public the best we can. Do it in a seamless of a way as possible. And so, I appreciate that we are lookinginto this carefully. I think some of the concerns that I May have heard and I think they're being addressed, perhaps, one, the issue of public input and my assumption, please correct me if i'm wrong, but as you have been meeting through covid, it has been gm, so it's not a public process at this point. So, I think I heard that moving forward, you would consider that and hopefully that would alleviate some of the concerns that, or at least that I have been hearing from the public. But my biggest issue here and Iappreciate director hendricks comments is that there is -- I think there's some trade-off we have to consider. Mainly in regard to funding. So, as director chavez mentioned, you know, we still have to work onmaking sure that we in the south bay are getting our fair share of funding and we have that battle constantly, frankly at the mtc level. [laughter] moving forward as you look at the network manager approach verses the preferred alternative gm's, where would the funding come from if we went to the network manager model. We put $85 million into the blue ribbon task force initiatives, but that funding, some of that funding came from arpa money and I know, I think you all know that our delegation fought for some of that funding or more of that to vta to address our hardship challenges. We might are followed the challenges we faced last year and so and we just recently at our last meeting, voted to sir plant some of the money, the vta money to put into the blue ribbon task force. I brought this up, where is that money best used? Is it best used creating another, for a lack of a better, another level of bureaucracy or is it usedgiving out service to our riders? I really want to make sure we look at that and look at the most efficient way and the cost effective way of doing this without, yah, without taking away from our real core job ofproviding service to the public. So, I think that concern -- again, one size doesn't fit all. I think someone else brought it up. How do we account for the differences in our agencies, the self-help agencies as director chavez talks about. I was looking at rm funding and in santa clara county, we pass sale taxes to fund transit and other countries I looked at solana county and they do not pass sales taxes so do we ake up for that from other funds and these are the bigger issues we have to take into consideration, so I hope that will all come out at this study that mtc is moving forward in doing and also just wanting to ask our directors here to keep those thoughts in mind as we move forward at looking at what the best networkmanagement system or model, I should say, will be moving forward. Thank you.11:20 AMThank you. I see jim, do you want to make a comment?Thank you ery much, chair. I appreciate it. I wanted to appreciate compliment the points that a couple of board members made about our concerns. Partly in this discussion, the point was brought up, why are welooking at one option here? And let me just give you a sense that there were many different options floating around at this time. Mtc has some, but it's important to note that we've just seen -- one of the reasons we have put this on our agenda for the workshop that senator becker introduced a bill, sb7917and it does good things and talks about the network management factors that we support. The fares, theway-finding, the transfer, all of those are incredibly good things. It does say specifically that will be done by mtc. If you don't do it, you being board of directors of vta, you'll be ineligible for your sba funds which we feel is a serious issue. We are concerned because the governance, as you've heard ms. Chavez say eloquently, it's not representative of santa clara and mtc. That was a governance model that was formed in 1970, the population in the bay area are significantly different. We're curbed about the model and the allocation of fund and we're concerned that it will impact our riders which is our primary concern. Thank you.11:22 AMThank you.I do want to say, I just want to -- I really, really thank those agents, the organizations, the county, the cities association and mayor's office that both remember chavez, mayor liccardo, board member - they sit on our board and our board -- actually wanting the mtc commissioners being an active member on ur board and to actually have members that sit who understand vta, most of the region is not that lucky for the other 27 operators of the there's no transit operators represented on the board which is understandable when you have 27 operators in the region. So, but I do want to really say that is so important and they're doing, you know, a good job up there. So, you know, our interest and really bringing an operator's perspective that other commissioners don't see.11:23 AMThank you. director liccardo.Thank you and I appreciate that, carolyn's compliments about our yo man's people. Forgive the ignorance of my question here, jill, because you started own this list and I want to be sure I have complete clarity about what is our fear? What re he boogieman and it sounds like one is the loss of the mta funding, it wasn't compliant and representation. What else do we fear?11:24 AMYou hit two of those concerns. Our third fear is the mandated -- to be mandated to do something we would have to take fund away from our family operations on. One of the general managers at a recent meeting said, who do they want me to fire? It what the response. As an example, one of the thing that, one of thethings s come up with a common format of data sharing for real-time ridership. We do that and we do that in a common format. But they can change that. And that would cost us money, that would cost us time. It would cost us disruption. Our concern is the fiscal impact on our ridership and the people we have serving the public.I'm sorry, it will affect our ridership because -- if you can complete that sentence.11:25 AMWe'll have to take funds away from our transit operation in order to fund some of these requirements.Sorry, I wasn't clear.No, no. you were. I wasn't connecting all the dots. [laughter]Thank you for that. look, I think all these concerns are obviously real and I know we've been talking about that and I just want to make sure I was super clear about what you guy were thinking because I don'tthink we've had this conversation offline, so it's good to have it online. I'm a little afraid of the perceptionvta is -- the representation of we're getting of not being good collaborators and we're in a different position from many and we're all very mindful of the history of which, as the county with the greatest population, we are clearly not vetting our way in getting the same resources that other parts of the region are. So, look, I think this is a situation where two pieces can be true. Secondly, we're perceived as the group always griping. I wonder if there's a way, a path forward where we can say yes. By that, I mean, we allwant regional collaboration to work and we all agree. And it would be seamless transportation. There's a lot of folk that live outsideof our county that need to work inside our county and let's face it, all our employers and our community depend on those workers getting here, so it's not about the folks who livehere, but the folks who participate in our community, so even though I know we have a relatively small shared road, but we want to be outward facing about this so I guess where i'm going with all this is, i'mhopeful that our message can be, yeah, we want to make this work, but here are our conditions. We think we can make it work rather than our message being similar to what they're probably hearing from the other 27 operators which is, hell no, you're just going to take my budget. [laughter] does anybody want tooperate any thoughts on that.11:27 AMIf I could quickly respond. we're on the same page. We agree that these are good things and good things to do. And that's why we went forward with the general managers o implement this in a way that we thinkwould make a positive and successful implementation of these recommendations.Thank, jim.I think one of the things that's important is we want to do this in coordination with mtc. It's not that -- I don't think operators, i'll say that, we won't want another layer of governance omewhere because it's -- it does take time for us and it's not that -- it going to have some ost to the perators which is not the only reason why we believe -- we think thing was good, but we can accomplish it we creating some kind of board because mtc is at appropriate board to work closely with us. They meet with all -- they know us all.It's not -- it wasn't that. It's just, but a lot of it is, you know, transit agencies are very complicatedorganizations in terms of their funding mechanisms and the boards we have and the authorities we have.We're not all created the same way. So, it's hard to take that into account, so I think that was really the reason why the transit operators really want o do it more in coordination than have something come down because we bring our points, we understand how -- I guess we understand each other. And what we have to go through. And you know, the -- usually a more governance board is not a transit operator and they don't under the nuisances and we're not funding at the governance level. Our funding are diverse among us all and it makes it very difficult to see how that would -- we can maybe accomplish it in ten, 20 years when all the legislation votes go through, but it would be difficult, so. . . .11:29 AMThanks.Thank you. I don't see any other ands raised. So, oh, sorry. Director montano.11:30 AMThank you, chair. so, i've been listening to all f you and I think you bring up some really good points. And I do understand that mtc wants to did some type of, integrating some relevant transportation in our region and i'm thinking, this is the bay area counties and you said there's 26? Out of 26 bay countys?I'm sorry carolyn, go.Go ahead, scott.There's nine counties in the mtc region and there's approximately 27 transit agencies.Oh, okay. yeah. so, then I heard earlier that santa clara county, the passengers are from santa clara county, so i'm wondering why we would going to far reaching to other counties because most of the transitusers are from santa clara county. It takes e back to our local control. The state is trying to take away of our local control in our cities and maybe this is synonymous with this. My concern is, we should befocusing on the central valley. A lot of folk are moving up to the central valley. Mtc has regional authority in that area, but that's where folks are moving. They're moving out to the central valley and congesting our freeways because they want to -- they want to cohere their jobs are at. I think we're just barking at thewrong tree. It seems like we should be focusing on long regional, not regional, but outside the other counties, like tracy for example. We have so many people moving up to tracy to all these other citiesbecause they want affordable housing and affordable housing and transportation are, there's a relationship there. Because they go hand-and-hand and as i've mentioned, many people re moving up to central valley and this is impacting our transportation system and our freeways, so I think that's where we should be looking at, not so much the bay area counties, but i'm not sure if mtc, their nly role is in the mtc county.Anyway. I'll leave it at that. I think we need better options. And the bottom line is, santa clara countyresidents use santa clara county transportation, so. . . . I'll leave it at that, thank you.11:32 AMThank you. I don't see any other hands raised so we're going to move on to item 2. 2. X. Finance functions assessment overview. I've asked staff to provide a high level overview, so that the board can get a general understanding of the assessment scope approach and some of the next steps that were identified. This will help us get context when this item comes back to the board at a future workshop. Joe manager willprovide information on this item. Carolyn11:33 AMTo give a quick update, when we were in this search for the chief financial officer, I had done a search when I what at utah transit authority as well and I had actually put a track significance, a finance transition assessment or assessment to use for the transition for the new cfo and they found it useful and we did the same thing. Pat hagan who you know as a previous general and corey sander, they did that work. We had them do the same thing when I came to vta in support of the ew chief financial officers, so something can be turned over looking at best practices in the agency where we're at. It helps support other efforts, potential efforts going on. So, just wanted to give a little update of what that assessment is about. And not conclusion, but a teaer. I'm going to turn this over to greg richardson, the cfo.11:34 AMThank you, joan. as carolyn 3 put it, it's more for us to make sure the board, number one was aware that this assessment was being done. And it was completed and as we develop more into the mechanics of what good into it, another board workshop, we can go into greater detail into the actual assessment and some of the information that in there, but today, again, to carolyn's point tshs point, it was a teaser. It's tohelp leverage the work to help prioritize efforts for me individually, but for the individual, not only theaccounting finance arena, but the overall vta department. With that, i'll turn it over to pat and he can walk through this brief overview and then we'll go from there. Thank you.11:35 AMThank you all and good morning. Myself and corey sanders and acting as independent consultants here andyou can advance to the next slide. I'll give you an executive summary for today's discussion. As the gm said, we tried to take an independent look at the finance function to support the on boarding of the new cfo with the thought ever how can we best support vta's overall vision and operations and as we run through this and we'll talk about this more in more depth, we were sensitive to the numbers that impacted vta within the last year and you're familiar with some, and wee cover those in more detail now. With regard to the work streams on the upper right hand of this slide, we did a comprehensive document review, we did a number of interviews with some of the board members, with all the chiefs on the management team, with the key financial staff and with muni leadership and we got good feedback and considered all that. Confidentially, we gotti valuations as well. We looked at job descriptions and consideredbest practices from atka and other transit properties around the country and we came up with a series of recommendations. So, broadly, the timing of the work was started toward the end of September of last year, about two months worth of time and we've concluded and I think we've presented to the chief onDecember 7th which was perhaps Mr. Richardson's second day or so on the job. In terms of theconclusions, we'll speak more in depth next time we meet, but we felt there was a collaborative effort to support cfo. We did, as usual come up with a number of different recommendations, so this really, in our opinion, it's an opportunity to revisit the ways of working and communicating internally, so finance is clearly a key support function. It clearly cut across the different departments within vta as Mr. Richardson mentioned and so, some of our observations May actually require some collaborative follow up across the other divisions as well. So the next step for this session and moving forward is for the cfo and management team to consider the recommendation and come p with their suggestion on priority schedule and also some of these maybe integrated into the general manager's overall vta plan. So with that, nextslide, please. As mentioned a couple of times, it's a very, very high level preview of some of the topics that we'll discuss with you when we get together at the next workshop. And so you can see that the report anddeliverables were broken nto three or four different areas and part one, we've spent a fair amount of time looking at broadly the finance function and organization and there's seven areas listed there and we cameup with 30 or so recommendations relating to the 7 areas. We'll talk in more detail about what each of those are, but these are significant areas. Budget, the bart phase ii project. People, key consideration, technology, key to support, organizational design, et cetera. So, when with you talk to you about therecommendations that we're suggesting on our next workshop, you'll see that these are really intended to drive process improvement, to help increase efficiency across the organization, to help leverage the technology that vta owns and has paid for. And to help clarify some policies, so pretty robust, we think, broad set of recommendations. Part two, financial health. We took a bit of a deeper dive from a finance,municipal finance perspective and looked at the areas identified here. Not individual audits of these areas by any means, but looking at, for example, levels of debt, use spots and related policies, levels of capital assets and pension funding obligation and funded ratios, et cetera. And we also risk ranked those for thenew cfo's benefit. The third section, we conducted a pretty extensive finance function survey covering the 12 or so areas that are identified there. We had over 200 plus questions. We got about 15 responses, so we thank all of those management people that participated and gave us information. And really, this was designed to assess a couple of different things. One was the set of controls that's in place at vta. The second was to solicit some user feedback and we got a lot of good indications and perceptions of folks. And one of the key areas too that was helpful to us, we thought was getting some feedback on perception offinance as it operates within the organization. And so, we've provided all that information to the new cfo and hopefully that will be useable going forward. And then, we'll share with you next time a summary, many of you are familiar with the heed concept we have used in the past and that attempt to array thetypes of recommendations we've made by our suggested priority and over a suggested timeline. Certainly, Mr. Richardson, sorry to begin to look at these and he'll have these own thoughts as we go forward, but we'll share these with you as well. So that is a very quick overview and I suppose we can take Mr. Chair ormadam gm, any questions if there are some.11:41 AMThank you, chad.Oh, just real quickly, one of the things for the cfo's, we have a number of vacancies in that department of managers through retirements or promotions and to other jobs or other agencies so, this really also helps us to take a look at, you know, what are we looking for? What are the type of people we need to come in or the process we want to establish? This was a big portion of that work a well.11:42 AMThank you, carolyn. again, thank you, pat. As mentioned earlier, this was just a high level overview for us to come. My desire as knowing that we're going to get really into the weeds in the future discussions that we wanted to at least give the board members some context and have you thinking about these areas so you can e prepared for that very detailed discussion. So, now we're going to go to public comments.Rainey, do we have anyone requesting to speak on this item?11:43 AMWe don't have hands raised, Mr. Chair.Okay. bringing it back to the board. I don't see any hands raised. So, we are going to go our next item hich is other items. And we don't have any other items. That will take us to our next item which isannouncements. Do we have any announcements? I don't see any hands raised so that means our