January 22, 2021Santa clara9:00 AMValley transportation authorityPlease stand by...>>>> member hendricks: ood morning, our special meeting is now called to order at 9:00. I would like to welcome pat burt from the west city group. Pat is a member of palo alto and elaine will now administer the oath of office.9:01 AMHi, good morning. please raise your right hand, member burt.I, state your name, do solemnly swear that I will support the united states and the constitution of the united states and the constitution of the state of california, against all enemies, foreign and domestic, that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the united states and the constitution of the state of california, that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion, and that I will well and faithfully discharge duties upon which i'm about to enter. Welcome.9:02 AMThank you.Thank you.Hendricks: welcome on board, pat, thanks for joining the team. Now we'll do roll call.Clerk: coga, blankley, burt, carrasco, here, chavez, here, constantine, present, davis, here, gillmor, here, jimenez, lee, liccardo, present, montano, present, paul, hre, peralez, rennie, here, simitian, here, vice-chair jones, present, chairperson hendricks. Hendricks: attending.9:03 AMYou have a quorum.Thank you. before we begin, we have a lot of things to get done. I want to espect my colleagues time and the public's time. To make sure we do everything today, we'll do the following. We'll go through the items of the special meeting from now until 9:15 and then continue the special meeting of 11:30 11:30 we'll begin the workshop. During the workshop, will ask staff to finish their presentation before members askquestions. We will have a hard stop for the workshop at 11:30. Right now, we are stopping at 11:30. At that time, we'll go into the special meeting and going into closed session and open the closed session at noon, and we plan to end this session at noon. I hope that plan is satisfactory. The first item on the agenda is 2. 1. 2. 1. Action item -ratify the appointment of general counsel evelynn tran as acting general manager/ceo for the santa clara valley transportation authority (vta), in addition to maintaining her current role as the general counsel. In addition, authorize the chief administrative officer to take all necessary actions to execute a contract with an executive search firm to recruit candidates for the position of general manager/ceo. Sylvester faddal, hief administration officer is here to answer any questions. Before we go with the board questions, I would like to take public comment items. I'm going to open the public hearing and see if there are any public comments. Please let our speakers in.9:06 AMYes, it looks like you have two speakesrs.Blair. public speaker: thank you for chair fernandez person as vta head. She did some incredible work, how to balance the budget in this time of covid-19 and I think we are all respecting a patience that she, I hope all of us can be respecting about how to address the needs of transit operations services and ts budget and she navigated incredibly very well how to do all of that. And, I hope our local cities can respect andappreciate what she's trying to work on and develop for transit service services, and to conclude. Thanks for your service.9:07 AMHendricks:Next speaker, please.Yes. eugene, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: good morning, board members,Can you hear me?Yes.This is eugene, from transit valley ceo. I want to thank ms. Fernandez for her service. She's clearly the best general manager I have ever worked with and vta will be very hard pressed to find a proper replacement for her. Just overall, good luck ms. Fernandez and good luck vta to finding a successor. Thank you.9:08 AMHendricks: okay, i'm going to close the public session and go back to my board members for questions or comments? Any comments or questions? Is there a will of my colleagues?Motion to approve.Hey, glen?Yeah, sam, did you have a question before the motion?Yes, I did. and this is specifically on the appointment, is that correct, the motion?Yes.Yeah, just a quick question for evelyn and first a very big thank you to evelyn to her willingness to serve and a very difficult time to lead the transit agency. I appreciate her willingness to step up. Sho have you clearly identified to evelyn the important role in her office?9:09 AMYes, I have. she's on the panel this morning.Wonderful. it's great for all of us to be aware of who we should we going to at any time. Thank you.Hendricks: are there anymore questions or is it back to Mr. Jones?A motion to approve.Second, chavez.Great, we have a motion and a second. Seeing no other comments or questions, let's have a voice vote.9:10 AMBurt, yes, carrasco, yes, chavez, yes, constantine, aye, jimenez, aye, liccardo, aye, montano, aye, paul, ae, peralez, not hre, i'm going to call on alternate board member davis, aye, thank you. Simitian, aye, thank you, jones, aye, hendricks, ys.The motion passes unanimously.Thank you and congratulations to evelyn tran and thank her for stepping into this role while we look for a new gm.9:11 AMMoving on the item 2.2. chief faddal will provide a brief report on this.Thanks, Mr. Chair, and welcome everyone. I want to maintain the process that we will continue through for the gm. As we know nuria resigned January 19th. And the plan is to expedite this recruitment process. All strategies will be followed in the guidelines. The average timeline for the recruitment of the generalmanager spans 5-6 months. It's important to recognize that this position is highly competitive and typically the timeline is driven by the competition in the market. I want to share with members of the board what we are competing with at this point. As of today, there are over 16 general manager positions opennationwide. Nine of them are seeking the general manager position of ceo and we have a couple in the bay area, we have the bay area cal tran and dallas, and we have translink in vancouver, canada, honolulu,washington, miami-dade and illinois. This is going to be highly competitive and what's even more interesting is that eight of those agencies which I have just read to you have similar salary structures likevta, the compensation rank is somewhat like what we have here, honolulu, and silicon valley is one of the most expensive areas to reside. I just want to get that out there so we know the battle ahead of us and I want the board to be aware of the process.9:13 AMSo as we move along this process, we are providing the optics. The first step is the selection of the board search committee. This is a composition of four board members ade up of the board chair, vice-chair andthe board chair gets to appoint a couple persons on this committee making it a total of four. This team works very closely with my team and the executive search team going back and forth with placingcandidates and for questions from the board. Once the board has approved, we will engage on those that are qualified to lead the ceo recruitment and we have someone that is able to target this alignment for this position and will select candidates and select candidates for consideration and review. The search committee will make a decision on the number of candidates and will schedule interviews and four members of the committee will lead the interview process in collaboration with myself and the head of the executive search firm. It going to be a collaborative search process where the board subcommitteeconducts the interview. Upon the completion of the interview process, the board will make a 3recommendation on the top candidate for a possible interview and a vote and they can recommend the two top candidates that is no single outstanding top candidate and the board can make a recommendation on who is qualified as the next general manager and ceo of this agency. Once the oard makes the decision to that affect, we will make a presentation to the board on the salary and compensation data that includes alltransportation agencies and compensation ranges that are typically included in a general compensation package for a new ceo. Then the board gets to a point, the general manager and ceo in a public meeting.Once that's done, prior to the appointment of the public section, vta will engage in negotiations and reachan unemployment contract reviewed and approved by the board before the final approval and appointment of the new general manager. I will be sharing later today in closed session a lot more in depth specific information pertaining to this process with the board. Two options we have on the table as to how we proceed with this process. Thank you, I will pause and take questions.9:16 AMHendricks: thank you for the information. I'm going to public comment.Yes, I would like to note for the record that member peralez has joined us.Thank you.9:17 AMRoland, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you, we take after caltrain basicallyjust about anybody is more qualified than tim heartnik for the job and that leaves jimmy from caltrain, that is down to five. As far as filling nuria's shoes, I think I will pass, thank you.That is the only public speaker. I will close public comments. Really quickly, are there any comments from my colleagues? I'm not seeing any, so we are going to go ahead and -- I want to add one last thing beforemoving forward. It is up to the chair to create this four person ad hoc committee. I didn't want to do that before the board heard what was going on here. If there are any board members interested in participating in that role, go ahead and send me an e-mail and I will try to make that decision this afternoon. If you are interested, just send me an e-mail about that. That brings us to the end of item 2. 2.9:18 AMThat was an informational item. At this time I would like to entertain a motion to post postpone the special meeting to 11:30 today. Is there a motion to do that?So moved.Is there a second?9:19 AMJones second.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Thank you. motion passes.Peralez was an aye. I apologize.Thank you.Hendricks: e will continue the special meeting later this morning. Congratulations. We are almost on time.Now we'll convene the regular session to order at 9:19. Do we have the same people present?Yes.9:20 AMItem no. 2, for items not on the agenda. This portion of the meeting is designed to address board members. I encourage those with concerns to contact the department. Are there any public comment speakers. Let's get them started.Very good. it looks like we have two. Roland followed by blair.Roland, you May begin speaking when rady. Public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair, apologies for who Mayhave heard this before. As you May know that it's interesting how this could be possibly late on the budget and it's a set of books on the expenses. The set of books that was not part of the fda full funding agreement totaling $1 billion not reported to the board. This is what resulted in a protected $1. 1 billion by the time this sunsets, 15 years from now. This was compounded last week when they submitted the application for the committee n $2 million in the funds. This is not going to work when you have o supportthe bus and light rail. In closing, i'm asking this board to rethink the bart phase into this approach.9:21 AMNext speaker, please. public speaker: blair?Hi, I will try to get through this. Happy new year, happy inauguration time and welcome new vta persons.As equity can be reimagined can be a better reason for our society at this time and to much local andbarriers in dialogue as far as technology speakers can do the same amount of work with the berryessa and bart station and vta needs to open up more policies and dealing with more trash can apps that can infringeon this situation and twork on reimagining and peace. Thank you.9:23 AMThank you, blair. we have one more speaker. Begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker:[inaudible]I think we are going to move on.Thank you.I'm not seeing any other public comments right there.Mr. Chair?Yes.If I May just respond real quickly to one of the public comments regarding the bart project?Sure.Because of the brown act, I can only briefly respond to it because it's not agendaized, but what I want to point out in regard to the bart project is that we have what we call an svrt program which is the full 16 miles. That 16 miles also views various aspects not just bart phase 1 which is 10 miles and bart phase 2 which is the last 6 miles, but also the project and all that information was provided to the board. What the public comment speaker is commenting on is the comparison of that number of the full program versus the information we provide to the fta which is the federal project for the federal project which is the first 10 miles, the sv extension. I just wanted to clarify that.9:25 AMThank you. with that, were going to get to our first workshop item. We have a hard stop.3. 1. Information item - receive a presentation on vta's public transportation agency safety plan (ptasp).(verbal report) (gaeta)Thank you, chair.Good morning chairs and members of this board. I am angel angela gaeta and with me member lucero for this presentation. On June 19, 2020, vta adopted the agency's public transportation agency safety plan.Under federal law, the board fully understand that plan and it's timely to do a debriefing. To make it as safe as possible for employees who live and travel near the system. Vta developed this safety plan on safety, however, several years ago, the fta decided to do a study nationwide. The study revealed that incidents occurring on trams had increased over the year and transit agencies weren't doing enough for this priority. And they needed to do this on a national level and to do that, they came up with ptasp which is a comprehensive safety plan. Each agency was required to have an approved ptasp in place by July of 2020 which they did. Before we discuss the details of the vta plan, it's important to talk about safety culture which is an agency attitude towards safety of its system and travellers. If it's not committed to safety, it will affect the way that management responds to allocated resources. How do we ensure a safetyculture. What is prioritized by these listed. To begin, vta's ptasp is based on the four pilars which includesafety management policy, safety risk management and safety assurance and safety promotion. These four pillars provide a collaborative approach and a mechanism for bringing management and employeestogether. We begin with the first pilar of the safety management systems which is the safety management policy. For vta, that policy is reflected in its statement which is the beginning of our ptasp. The statement is the foundation of ptasp and vta's plan and sets the tone for the success of this vta. I will give you a moment to read that statement. What should stand out is two things and that vta's executive and board ofdirectors are responsible for ensuring that organizational resources are allocated n furtherance of this commitment.9:29 AMWhat does that mean? it means to be able to identify hazards that can cause injury, or death or loss of facilities, equipment, vehicles, or infrastructure or damage to the environment. These could beoccupational through the environment. All vta contractors are responsible for reporting any hazards they encounter during their duties. In order to assist them in identifying and reporting hazards, our safety compliance team has issued safety cards to all staff. An example of what is included in those cards is shown here. You will notice the cards list the type of hazards that are reportable and the methods for reporting them. This is a valuable reminder to staff that safety is important. In the fall of 2020, this system began to distribute cards to employees and we are currently administering them in the customer service center. Following this team, our team will work with our board secretary to ensure all members receive an information card as well. Another way vta manages risk is through a transit management plan and which iv# identifies all of our assets and conduct a risk assessment. Safety and security impacts, environmental impacts, service delivery impacts, financial impacts, public relations, legal impact and corporate information systems impact. For example, if the overhead wire that electrifies our system on our light railtrains was analyzed using the above model under safety impact, any failure of the wire would have catastrophic consequences, even if the possibility of a failure of occurring was remote, catastrophic consequences would still be considered serious as shown in the orange square and vta would need o make the decision based on the mitigating factors whether there is a warrant for replacement. Vta has already performed a risk analysis of the overhead wire and was in the process of beginnings a rehabilitation project to replace the overhead wire in certain areas of the system. Two phase es of the project have already beencompleted to date and staff is working on a third phase. The risk assessment performed for this project will be critical should staff need o approve additional funds for the project. Second, the egister that includes all vta assets will be important as staff prioritizes other projects. This requires vta to show actions that need to manage risk are actually effective. How is it done? Through a systemic collection of analysis of dallaswith rules, compliance, testing and inspection, maintenance audit and investigations and drug and alcohol testing. Here is an example. Vta is regulated by the fta and operational system. During the implementation of the change per the assurances process provided in our ptasp, staff will perform an analysis and assessment of how to change and would impact operations. If during the assessment staff discovers that a new hazard will be created as a result of the change, vta will reach out to the c puc to explore alternate approach to address their concerns.9:34 AMThank you, suzanne. before I go through this slide, I did want to let the board members know something that wasn't mentioned in the beginning but worth mentioning now. A lot of these pilars that make-up the components of the ptasp, vta was already doing as a requirement hrough its original spp, what we are doing now is an enhanced version of that and more comprehensive approach. So when we are talkingabout projects that have occurred prior o the ptasp is because we were following the principles of these four pilars. An example of how safety assurance has worked in the past is with the vta project. What you see in the picture is the operator in the light rail train views as they are sitting in the front cab. To the right is the screen and if you will imagine that as a rear view mirror. And this is coordinated with the system andwith the camera system and due to the outdated camera system. This is the function provided and the functionality of the system. During the assessment, concerns were raised with placing the monitor as you can see in the picture to ensure the obstruction from any of the operators and the rear of the second car.As you can imagine the camera at the rear of the second car and that camera is facing forward, is what someone standing at the end of that train would see looking forward. And hat was causing somedisorientation from our operators. If you are driving a vehicle, you want to see what's behind you, not necessarily looking forward because you can already see in that direction. It was causeings somedisorientation and a possible hazard for when customers exited and entered that second car of the train ecause there was a delay in the feed from the camera on the second car to the first car. There was also anissue with brightness and glare on the car and reporting system failures. So safety assurance really had all the departments in a hands-on approach during the entire installation and testing of the system. Thesethings were identified and because of safety assurance, we were able to make changes to the system. We placed the monitors in a place that did not obstruct views and we disconnected the second between the cars so the operators were not disoriented and there was no delay in the feed and we offered the operators that dial that allowed them to adjusts the glare and also had the manufacture respond in a manner that insured that everything was captured while in operation. Safety promotion is broken into two elements.Staff competencies and the ptasp identified sensitive roles and outlined expertise and training needed byeach including initial training, competency training and recertification. Vta management is also responsible for jobs requiring physical safety and roadway worker protection nd training is needed for anyone working on the line or right-of-way and working with vta's operational control center and before exiting the right-of-way and maintain a safe distance from operating trains. The other half of safety promotion is afetycommunication. To satisfy this pilar, vta submitted information to help educate its employees on potential hazards and safety risks relative to the roles and responsibilities. On this slide, you will see some of the ways that vta has communicated and will communicate with employees per safety boards. The vta willprovide information for all safety related documents if employees are concerns about safety and they will know where to contact the information and the board will have copies of safety memos by the safety chiefin security. The team will provide all hazard information to every new employee to ensure that new employees are aware of the safety measures and the program we have available. So how does vta know how its doing? It works to select performance measures for the operations and environment. Performance measures were considered to be successful if they were specific measurable attained element nd tumidsmart. For light rail, vta measure's for total events, fatalities and injuries and failure rate. Vta's goal is tohave greater than 50,000 miles before any mechanical failure. A bus is to have a total of 150,000 trips annually. Per rp task process, the safety and compliance team will reevaluate these performance measures on an annual basis. That concludes our presentation. If you have questions or would like a copy, please reach out o us directly. A copy of the ptasp is also available on our hub and we'll take any questions. Thankyou.9:41 AMGreat, thank you. I think that's really a very quick pass into the important stuff you are working on. I'm going to our public comment first.Yes, we have three speakers. we have roland -- you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: thank you. In the interest of time, i'm going to get straight to the point here. Security is extremely important.But today is not the time to give this presentation. Please refer future presentations to the appropriatecommittee for this and then consider agendaizing these presentations n board meeting consent agenda.Thank you.Thank you.9:42 AMNext speaker, please.Eugene, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: good morning, once again, this is eugene,transit silicon valley. I also echo what Mr. Roland said and vta needs to schedule not front door boarding. I found out that drivers had covid as well. You need to make rear door boarding. You can't talk about safety and not allow everybody to be safe. Please reconsider that decision now. Thank you.Thank you.Next speaker, please.9:43 AMNext speaker, please. blair. public speaker: hank you. I will be speaking of former general manager fnandez a lot today. Thank you for her work and effort to elp understand how there can be for theparatransit vehicles there can be a cleaning schedule that can develop and can be a cleaning schedule that actually can be introduced to the public and there can be just give and take and to be an overall betterpractice and that's the kind of thing that involves the public for a better system. Learn to involve the atu for more practices in this safety and talk about t more in the public process here. I think that will be more engagement and better practice for all of us.Hendricks: thank you, that was the last speaker and close the public comment section and go back to my colleagues. Do my colleagues have any questions? If you are new here, i'm just looking for a raised hand.I'm going once, going twice, i'm not seeing any comments from my colleagues. Thank you very much for the presentation about this. This is an information item so we don't need to take any action. Moving on to item 3. 2. 3. 2. Information item - receive an update on the fiscal year 2021 budget and upcoming fiscal year 2022 and 2023 biennial budget. (verbal report) (kelly)9:44 AMThe floor is yourself.Thank you very much, chair hendricks. Let's move straight to the agenda slide. This presentation is informational purposes only and much of the information was actually presented to the board in the past few months. We wanted to take this opportunity to bring new members up to speed with the budget. I will start with the current year budget and go over the most recent projections presented last month to the board. I would like to talk a bit about federal funding provided for ransit and here I have new updates fromwhat we knew last month. I will talk briefly will service levels, where we have been for the last year and the next few months and a quick overview of the biennial budget and board actions. This slide coming up was presented to them last month and it shows two things. It shows the current year budget which is in the left column and shows the preliminary financial projections for the years based on data for the first fewmonths. If you look at the first column, it's important to remember this budget was the second year of the biennial budget and this was developed long before we knew anything about coronavirus. If you go to the last row and the operating balance, there was a slight projected balance for the last year and it was anticipated this gap could be closed by cutting down on reserves and there was no cares act thought at thetime. So we put that in to follow the arithmetic in the other columns. I would like to show thank you range of projection from the bottom line. The key row here is the very first one, the sales tax row which is very critical for vta because that's 75-85% of all of our revenues and you can see between the conservativeprojection and the optimistic projection of $385 million in sales tax. I have been doing transit process since the 80s and never imagined this wild uncertainty. We met with professes from ucla which has sales tax model. We are working on our current projection and will show to the committee next month. But I can tell you that we are going to come out much more optimistic than the other scenarios. I will talk about federalfunding but as you can see in this table as we do see the optimistic ones shown here, you will have a healthy amount f federal funding for future years as well as to close this year. So before we leave this page, I want to leave you one more look at the tax related line because the next goes into that. This shows there are five different components to the sales revenue, but the bottom line is that they are all sales tax and go in the same direction. So when times are good, these numbers go up, when they are bad, they go down. As you know the federal government made funding available to transit agencies last year and we used some of that for the cares act and we used that and we had some funds available to bridge the fundsthis year and last year in december, there was an additional law that gave about $14 billion for public transit throughout the country and about $975 million will be coming to the bay area. Next week, January 27th, the mtc will vote on the initial distribution of those funds and we know they are going to be allocating about $180 million to five transit operators. The allocations they are coming out with next week are based on actual revenues from March of last year when the pandemic started through december. Some of you will recall that the initial money was based on projected revenue losses and now we have revenue losses. The five properties that will be allocated the money are bart, sfmta and transit and ferries. That does not include vta. It still leaves about 800 million to allocate and the formula for that allocation is very much still being discussed in the region. I want to review transit levels for vta in the service plan and includes high ridership with frequency and then with the pandemic ridership immediately dropped about 75% and wedecreased service about 60%. Between April and now, ridership has fluctuated but remains down about 75%. We have gravity increase levels than before and the transit capacity is reduced and we are only offering about 10-20% of the compass that we had before. Next month in february, vta will increasefrequency in the bus routes and that will bring us to about 80% of where we were before the pandemic. I want to touch briefly on the process for the capital budget. This is the year that vta adopts the two yearbudget and this is rather complex and serves other programs. You can see there are eight independent funds that are included in the vta budget and some for operating and capital both, but I do want to draw your attention to the line there that says that is your vta program and that fits into this two year budget.This lislideshows this statement and we'll be bringing the quarter revenue experiences and the bottom part of this chart shows the you mean coming board actions related to the biennial budget nd here I want to draw your attention to the April board wrkshop. That's the time that we'll present to you ourrecommendations. In May and in June you will see that there is action on both sides. You will see information from the third quarter for this current year and the anf committee and the board will be reviewing and adopting the final budget. That is some highlights of where we are going and we wanted to ring everybody up to speed on that. Thank you so much.9:53 AMHendricks: thank you, kathleen for all of that information for what's going on. I want to go to our publicspeakers first and then come back to the board for comments and questions.9:54 AMWe've got ten speakers. public speaker: with no more relief funds on the way, it's important we focus on trans operations because obviously as the pandemic has shown us is what allows workers to maintain their jobs and the cash footprint.Next speaker, please. public speaker: hi, my name is charlotte. I am a resident of san jose. When i'm able to work, I will be taking vta busses to work as in the past and caltrain. I also want o urge everyone to prioritize transit operations and making sure that we maintain and expand especially buses instead of using buses elsewhere because it's very critical for equity and climate change and especially buses. We really need them.9:56 AMThank you. very good.Tessa, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: good morning, this is tessa. As the vta hasdeclared and called an emergency and built into that format as we must look at everything in terms of our greenhouse gasses and we need to look at our community assets from our sales tax which needs to be reduced because we need to be a hyper local economy. We need to stay home that is the cry of climatechange and covid-19, we need to eradicate this quickly and we need to realign measure b and stop the expansion to santa clara. It needs to take all that money of that expansion which is almost over $1 billion and use that to create a transit system that is workable and bikable. That's where our infrastructure needs to come into is to create a world class bicycle infrastructure and walking infrastructure and that and a bus system that is local and hyper local.9:57 AMThank you.Thalia, before we close the next speakers, can you close the additional speakers.Yes. public speaker: thank you. I'm also heavily in support of using the money to fund bus transportation for people who need it especially in disadvantaged communities and people who don't have -- anyway. I think that for future expanding the buses until you can put up a group rapid transit system that is elevated and done right. This was a model developed in 2000 and people didn't buy it because it was already used somewhere else and that is something that might be sold and would be good for the buses and in the research area putting a transit network to get people there without spending a lot on diesel. Thank you.9:58 AMThank you, mark.Before we go on to the next public speakers, I wanted to note that we have received two written public comments from roland which are included in the online packet. Our next three speakers will be gavin, david and kelly. Gavin, you May begin speaking when ready.9:59 AMThank you. I think we'll move to the next speaker.David? public speaker: hello, my name is david and I wanted to give support on the operations on thebudget on public transit because I will be taking transit afterwards and having a system that allows me to get to the system and around because I don't have a cr. That is a way for reducing greenhouse gasses and I hope that you will get more operational funds in the budget so we can recover more quickly and the transit ystem is what it was before. Thank10:00 AMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: hllo, vta board, good morning. I'm from coopeupertino. I just wantthe board members to prioritize the transit budget for next year. This is very important and I have seen a lot of people depend on public transportation and they are very young or old and their needs matter too. Iwant to emphasize how important this is to move people around without using as much greenhouse gasses and get as much service out there which is the basic fundamental of the transportation system. Thank youvery much.10:01 AMThank you.Very good.Next speaker, please. roland, followed by karen and blair. Saleene, you have joined after we closed public comment.Next speaker, please. public speaker: thank you. To the transit advocates, first, thank you, kathleen for theoutstanding presentation and being very forward about the cares act surplus. I want everybody to look at slide no. 4 that shows that we are in very good shape and that we still have a cares act surplus even if we basically match the budget. There is no problem there. Now, in closing, you are going to be receiving a letter from me over the weekend responding to what the general counsel, I have a real property with the vta. Let me say to you, the warm springs was $9. 1 million, not 9. 1 billion. Thank you.10:02 AMNext speaker, please. public speaker: good morning, vta board members, my name is kevin, a resident of palo alto and here with turnout for transit. As a rider of 522, transit is very important to me and transit is a way to get to a place without the causes to environmental impact, taking up so much space via parking on the landscape and gas emissions and roads and asphalt because asphalt also has greenhouse gasses and uncounted for and we need to have transit expanded and sustained in the future, otherwise we are lockingourselves into an environmental world that is not going to look good and also for the protection of the environment and to have the ability to get o place to place without congestion and parking. Thank you.10:04 AMThank you.Next speaker, please.Hi, thank you to the work of general manager fernandez that will help with the measure b funding for the needs of the management of transit operations which is necessary during this time of covid-19. Thank you to the people of local south bay communities and how vta funding will work to address funding needs and to more formally beat the era of covid-19. Bob has written a letter on public comment today on a system that will be open and accountable. Thank you.10:05 AMMonica? public speaker: hi, my name is monica, i'm speaking for public transit and climate change. I'm a lifelong transit rider. I really want you to work on the budget for ransit so you can make a successful recoveary and to ensure the funding from the cares act will be going to health and safety and alsoapproved and not needed. Thank you so much.Next speaker, please. public speaker:10:06 AMCan you hear me?Yes, we can.I urge you to increase transit operations in the upcoming budget for the next ten years. We have ten years or less. We could not possibly meet our climate goals without increasing ublic transit. I live in san jose, I do not own a car. Precovid, to travel five miles, I would have to leave one hour to get to work on time. Ifyou cut transit; it could be longer. It could put thousands of cars on the road because parents will need to drive their children to school. Please prioritize this service. Thank you.10:07 AM>Next speaker, please. public speaker: hello, my name is amila, i'm from san jose and a transit rider user and support the funding of the transit system that will be a resource for disadvantaged communities and people of color and low-income folks and will speak to how this area, the silicon valley works in the orkingclass mostly when the working class is trying to survive. Further more, if this area plans to be the blueprint where the economy change, it needs to set the example for the rest of the state. Thank you so much.Thank you.> thank you. public speaker: once again, board members, eugene bradley. I echo the comment of the other speakers about the need to serve transit operations, every ballot measure passes increases in busservice that will be a few months after this passage service cuts are made. For example, measure a, as soon as that passed, budget cuts were initiate by vta. Even with 2016, measure passage. Two monthslater, bus service cuts. This sends a poor message about priorities and vta and really last 20 years. Let's get these priorities change and really prioritize transit operations in the budget. Thank you.10:09 AMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hi, for the record, my name is brian prescott, a member of thebicycle coalition. I take vta everywhere. I take the bus to get food for myself, to get food for my cats. I'm very excited about the optimistic projections from the relief of the cares act. I think people have made a lot of great points. I think now we have a moratorium on evictions statewide and a moratorium on student debt interest you need. It's not a great time to be taking out $10,000 in debt to buy a car. Let's keep this rolling. Thanks a lot.Thank you. that was our last public speaker. Going back to my colleagues on the board. We havesupervisor simitian.10:10 AMSupervisor, are you there?Forgive me, Mr. Chair, were you speaking out to me?Yes, did you have your hand raised?Thank you, i'm sorry i'm having a little technical difficulty. I just wanted to ask for a quick timing questionwhich is when a calendar and timeline hat we saw when the board would be expected to vote on the measure b ten year program?I don't think it was exposed to be called out on the timeline and I heard dates on prior conversations.10:11 AMYes, I am here. and I believe we usually try to approve the measure b in may, that is a component of the budget in june. Am I correct about that?You are correct.So, just so there is no confusion, thank you, that's a helpful piece of information. Now that I understand what the budget would be presumably approved in june, the action on the measure b component of thebudget would like to take place in May and is that May 20 date that we are seeing on the screen the operative date or another date for those that are concerned about those particular set of issues can have a clear target for the resolution?It would be the date of the May board meeting which I do not have in front of me.10:12 AMMay 20 is the a & f meeting.Mr. Chair, this is elaine.The May board meeting is on May 6.Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's helpful. It sounds like that's the date that we need to target if Iunderstand correctly for the resolution on that set of issues that we are going to be addressing in a couple minutes, yes?Yes, we are going into more detail in a couple minutes.Thank you very much.Do any of my colleagues have any thoughts or questions they would like to ask?Mr. Mayor liccardo?Thank you, chair. kathleen, I appreciate the information. Just a question about the federal dollars that were flowing through -- do we have a sense why this priority was given to the five agencies golden gate, the others?10:13 AMYes, what they decided to do was they call a rue up because when the initial allocations asked for projections for hey - revenue losses, now that we have actuals to go back and look at those and that's why those five agencies were prioritized.Okay, i'm sure there is a flurry of staff over those 8 million. Is that something you can reveal now or is it sworn to secrecy?It's not secrecy, it's just looking at the best components. Obviously the revenue loss and people are also talking about equity and trying to define equity. So we are trying to be transparent, but there is a lot of concern about what the period will be that they look at.10:14 AMWell, if we have to all agree on defining equity, this could be a very long conversation, I suspect. I look forward to the conversations at the mtc. Thank you.I think what you are getting at Mr. Mayor, is vta needs to be advocating as strong as they can.Yes, I appreciate whatever nudge staff can give us as an indication and we can take it up with our colleagues as well.Thank you.Supervisor chavez?Thank you, I wanted to reiterate the point the mayor just made about the board, one thing I would like to encourage the staff through the chair is to alert the boards to be active and the public can be active on this issue. I feel like sometimes we are a little silent at that regional level. That's one point. The second issue I wanted to raise is that one of the points that actually one of our colleagues at caltrain raised is how to include transit dependent riders in the consideration around equity at a regional level. I raise that because we have ne of the most transit dependent populations that are using our facilities and I want to make sure our staff is really looking at transit and being able to quantify it and engage on a regional level and equityon that subject. Part of the problem is when you look at one of the me ours -- measures, that if you look at ridership and your ridership is already poor, that doesn't help you as much as it could. That's one thing forstaff to consider. The other thing is I think it was sfmta, did a really great analysis on their riders and has a great framework to it and I would like to have staff look at it, it was a design from a few years ago but a great framework to look at how that framework a lines with us and whether it should be shared regionally and for how their resources are shared. Another thing is that we are an integrated system and one of theadvantages to that is I think it allows us to be more responsive to the customer. One of the disadvantages to that is that we are investing in ace, we are investing in the santa cruz bus, I apologize, I can't recall. Wedo a lot of regional investments, but I don't want to be penalized because we invest in other partner ages which I think is the right thing to do, nonetheless, we need o make sure it's part of the analysis. Thank you.10:17 AMThank you.Hendricks: i'm not seeing any other hands from my colleagues so I will close that section. I just want to point out that we have a lot of work going on here and there are a lot of unknowns to take a look. And this is not just a matter of coming up ith a number of budgeted and what it is and ow we are going to be able to look at what we do and being able to show our values and what we decide to do with service hours and things like that. I think there is going to be a bunch more discussions going on n the next couple months.I'm really looking forward to everybody's detail and discussion into this and how we can put together withthe numbers with the unknowns that we have and doing the best we can in terms of providing service to our customers. So we have lots more to do on this. So that was information, no vote or anything required on this. E are moving to 3. 3. As we get into this, I want to remind everyone that we have a hard stop at 11:30. We will get through this presentation quickly and with the public if they are quick with what theyhave to say and get through our colleagues comments and if we don't get through that, we have a future time to discuss. With that, I believe kathleen is presenting again, is that correct.10:19 AMYes. i'm back again and I know the last one was my warm up and for those who have not met me because I have been virtual for a month and I want to assure you that I know everything there is to know about vta finances. Moving right along. The reason that we are bringing this item on 2016 measure b program to youtoday is that the stage for developing ten year program of projects as well as developing the measure b input to the upcoming biennial budget which we just talked about in the prior presentation. In contrast to the last presentation which was informational purposes of this item to solicit board feedback on the two items on the bullets on the agenda. I'm going to review some history and to staff response for thepreliminary information and ask you for feedback on that and then cover the capacity and the need for the basics on the program and the criteria to use in selecting the specific projects that will be included in your program and those that will be included in the upcoming biennial budgets and then we'll ge over next steps and timeline. Moving to slide four to the program history, as many of you remember well, in 2015, thesilicon valley process was in full force and lots of meetings and criteria used and culminated with the board adoption with the project with over 70% and shortly after that, vta began collecting revenue and puttingthem into escrow but we were unable to disburse the funds because of the lawsuit and moving on in 2017, the category guidelines were approved and then 2019 funds become available for distribution and 2020 begin to develop 10 year program process. I would like to present staff's proposed ideas and come back and get your thoughts at the end of the presentation. The first principal we are proposing is to invest in allnine categories and there are nine programs and second group the second projects the needs capacity phase 1 caltrain 2 and grade separation. If this principle is approved, it would require that some level of investment would be included in each of the categories during each of the program and that will be on an annual basis that speaks to the roads and bike ped and transit operations and the percentage included in the measure would be allocated. The third we would propose allocations to be made to the six programs, the needs capacity program and here we are recommending that the board approve project selectioncriteria that would be used to determine when a project is eligible in a program and included in the budget.I will show you the constitutional right but that needs more work. The last is the using of financing tools to make funding available when projects are ready. In other words, if a project meets the criterias after the board selects that for project readiness and is included in the budget and we made the annual allocations for the other programs and we realize we don't have enough revenue to cover all of the expenses, we issue debt to cover those costs. As made clear at the last board meeting, we are not issuing debt until we areready to take an action that is related to construction. The next slide shown at the last board meeting is not meant to be a recommended scenario but one option for allocating funds. The reason i'm showing it here is to illustrate how the factors are laid out for this context. You see what was recognized earlierincluded in the measure, and the second column you will see the percentage of the program that is included for each of those programs. You recall the first principle there are nine categories. That was followed and to apply the percentage share from measure b to the formula base programs on on an annual basis. If you look at the little green erect rectangle there, there is the transit operations -- and we use those percentages to apply those each year. The next one that I talked about had to do with the programs that you can see in the red lines. These are the need capacity based programs. What was used for this scenario wasn't based on any board and selected criteria. What we did here s we took forward provided by city and county staff to populate the needs in each year, the principle we are recommending for each area to see which program should be included in the ten year. The last principle I mentioned was the financingtools that is illustrated in this scenario. You can see the second line where it says debt service and financing and that was what was done here after the projects were put in, we had modeling done to show how much debt would be needed in order to advance those projects. So let's move to slide 9 and here other I # -- I want to focus on the projects and the need based programs. Some of these preliminary criteria that we have here are typical of items that are used at the federal state and local level todetermine project and funding readiness. These are also based on some very early discussions with the ad hoc committee. The project delivery, this would be where we would develop measurable milestones todetermine when a project is ready to be in the program and particularly when it's ready to be advanced to the biennial budget. I am going to walk through this slide. And this is another project for the measure 16 program and this criteria looks at the status of those other funding sources because we don't want to be a programming measure b funding if those funds will not be available for several years. His is communitysupport and self explanatory to make sure that all are on board and processing for funds. The last criteria the equity and climate for balance are looking at the full ten year program that these are the boardpriorities. Let's go to the next slide 10. I want to show you how I apply these criterion. For this example, we chose a hypothetical applied project for the criteria to determine whether it would belong in the ten year program and the biennial budget. For the first line, I will go through that one to address the projectdelivery status to see if there is a plan in place to complete the environmental work and if so t project could qualify for the ten year program. If the project is even further along and there is a completed environmental process, then the project could move into the biennial budget but it wouldn't let it into thebiennial budget until we have that process completed. It could stay in the years of the program but not be programmed for actual funding. The other lines there work in a similar fashion.10:29 AMWe have the project selection criteria and the principles ack for any feedback and bring that back for formal approval and use those principles and criteria to develop a ten year program as well as the biennialrecommendation and that comes back to you for approval in May and june. Going to the next slide, this isjust a visual with the same techtexta and the timeline and work that would need to be done. As I mentioned bfore, this is one seeking your feedback with the criteria and then bring that back up to the board so we are looking at page 9 of the presentation.Kathleen, thank you very much. We are going to go ahead and go to our public comments in just a second and come back to the board. I want to reiterate, people can bring up what they want, but what we are really looking for is the feedback on the selection criteria and the principals for what we want to use. I just want to note to everybody about time. With that, we are going to public comments. Public speaker: thank yu. Where were you when we needed you you? And I would like to say in closing, what nuria did and thank you for keeping us honest. I'm looking at my screen right now in remembrance of nuria. Thank you.10:31 AMThank you.Next speaker, please.Very good, our next speaker will be blair followed by deanna and monica. Public speaker: hi, thank you, I hope my words can be relevant to this item. You know, it was a really difficult time for the vta this past year to work out their budget issues with covid-19, how to relate that to the public and then how to relate that to the public but think nuria's staff really came through to the public in a big way, and I think they ended up doing really good things. I thank you immensely for that. It's just a matter of how to get there.We have stories about the process and being difficult and clouded. I think we all learned lessons and hope that it can be a more open process in how we move forward with our budgeting issues. Good luck to ourselves and to our new persons in this new year. Thank you.10:32 AMThank you, and thalia, can we close the queue for new speakers.Yes, I will, chair. the final two speakers are deanna and monica. Before I call on them, I would like to note that we received two public comment in written form, one from the association of the santa clara county.10:33 AMDeanna, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: hello,Can you hear me?Yes.Great. edna levin, member of caltrain. I want to mention there has been a significant process in improvement in having this proposal to reflect voters intent with multiple categories with santa clara county and having good things in terms of being able to have the project and having it eady to fund, etc.I'm glad to see the criteria for equity and climate included. That will take some effort for how to define it inthis spending plan. Included this climate looking at vehicle miles traveled.10:34 AMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: this is monica melon, i'm speaking on behalf of myself. You all obviously have really difficult decisions ahead and I want o say that i'm really supportive of the secondprinciple especially as it relates to transit operations for the next ten years. I also hope there is a way for everyone to come together around a ten year outlook. There has been a lot of conflict. We really need to try to figure this out and get on the same page. We are all from the same county, all traveling through multiple cities and multiple jurisdictions. I really wish there is a way to figure this out. Thank you.10:35 AMThank you. that was our last public speaker. Now i'm coming back to my colleagues. Again, interested inyour thoughts and perspectives. We are going to start with member burt.Thank you, my question goes back to slide no. 8 where the projection for the caltrain grade separation funding is projected to be over just the next four years, and that was surprising and I wondered if kathleen or others could explain the thought process on that?10:36 AMI will call for marcella to give the details, but this is the report as of december.Just a little bit more to add. This came from the request that were received from the cities and what happened is that the entire allotment, the entire 30 year allotment was used on those years based on those requests.So, pat, if I can just add, I think what it really is is that it shows when city staff are saying, here yes, let's get it done ight away but this doesn't go through the different criterias and principles yet. That's when these things need to tie and to have these principles and to get a more realistic projection.10:37 AMCan we be provided what was the basis for that, that generalization that the city made for that full amountbecause that doesn't make sense to me?Yes, we do have the letters.Thank you.> thanks. next we'll go to member coga.Thank you, chair. the item is about the project but more in general, this timeline was there and theflexibility and the funding based on project readiness.10:38 AMSo, I think kathleen might be able to speak. I think the answer is yes. This slide 7 is not really the timing of what it's going to be and we need to use the timing or the readiness of the project as a criteria further out what it should be.Okay, so these numbers could shift based on that.It definitely will.Say, that four years of caltrain funding could potentially move up.Absolutely.In regards to the selection criteria, is there a further detail on more definition to be defined in the near future what's on the public comment in terms of equity, climate considerations, even looking at what does it mean to have partner agency or community support, does partner agency support specifically mean thelocal funding match, will that be defined further or do you already have those definitions available?10:39 AMNo, we have thoughts on those, but we do not have those defined yet and this is after today and we take your feedback. The staff will go back and will be working with the ad hoc committee to develop those andbring them back.Thank you.Margaret, I want to be clear, i'm taking that data criteria which is to have and really clearly document nd explain out what those are so everybody clearly understands.Yes, I do upport the principles here. Just interesting getting down to the granular of what that reallymeans.10:40 AMThis is for the board and will help to get that criteria. I'm going to move on to member rennie.Thank you, full go back to the slide, there is a question but I will lead you to my thought. I realize measure b doesn't guarantee when you get your project in the 30 years, it doesn't guarantee that, but a lot of people think in terms of, i'm going to call it fairness of this is my fair share this year for these different project categories. With that in mind, I look at this and you look at the totals through fy21 and highwayinterchanges, they are supposed to get 12% if you think of fairness per year but it's way over 27% in those first years so that says to me where in this fairness idea and in highways and if you look at the othercategories we under invested in transit so far and then if you look at weights in the potential plan going forward, highways are getting a ton more money and this doesn't say what the fairness per year is supposed to be and what our projected sales tax collection. So I had to make some guesses, but I calculated by the time we get to 2025, highways have over 600 million beyond heir fair share per year kind of thing. I realize it's not what measure b predicts but people think that way and for 3 bart before we start this discussion if it gets to its fair share over this period of time. With this thinking in nd.10:42 AMExcuse m, can you get to your question really quick because you are an alternate.Okay, I will stick to my three minutes.One minute.I will go back to that later. anyway, the question really is, can we dial back the highway interchanges that we are looking at in the future since we are way over now and can we think about adding maybe something to the principle that shifts us towards this fairness equity. Hendricks: thanks for that and I do think we tend to get hung up on this slide, but this slide was not run through the affiliate of criterias we are trying to change. I think we are going to change and being able to address the equity pieces of what you are saying I think is good. Kathleen, correct me if I am wrong here, there is one other piece we want to do based on readiness but some other programs are going to need an amount of money and there couldbe also money being allocated to the program to get to the eir to get to the point where they are going to be able to go to that readiness piece. The next supervisor I see is supervisor simitian.10:43 AMThank you, chair, I have a couple of questions before I make a comment or two or request or two. I understand this is the time for feedback and I wanted to take advantage of that. I wonder if staff could clarify the distinction or difference between principles and criteria. The terms are clearly being used here as a term of art and I have got a couple of notions I want to advance, but I want to make sure I advance the right categories so if the majority of the board agrees that they are imbedded in that measure. If I can get the information about the principles and that criteria.10:44 AMYes the principles are broad and would be in place for future tenure pograms. The place where we are talking specifically about criteria is we have a principle that says that we'll want board approval ofcomponents that tell us how these projects in that what we are looking in the streams is the ones that are in the red area. So these are different than the formula based ones. We have to have someway of figuringout and a project is ready. So I would say the principles are overarching and the components that we are talking about, the priorities are for the projects in that area to tell us when they are ready to go in. Theprinciples above.10:45 AMThank you, and if for example, let me just make this very tangible. If my goal and if the board thought the goal of the authority to ensure that funding allocations are consistent with the provisions of measure b, and that we will prioritize projects that provide the greatest measure of congestion mitigation to thegreatest number of county residents, do those fall in the categories of principles or criteria or both or neither?I think those are principles, those are part of the overarching framework that we are looking at. The criteria is to tell us when a project is ready to be moved in.10:46 AMThank you. I guess the question I would ask of you and the staff or the chair is if at some point is that those two principles would be incorporated in our measure b list of ten year program principles. I knowtoday, this item is on for information only, when might it be appropriate to offer those for formal consideration and action by our board?Hendricks: I think what we are looking for is suggestions and comments and then the staff can be deciding based on what we are going to hear is going to come back in a more formal component.10:47 AMWell, I will then say here are a couple suggestions and requests, one is just on the matter of measure b tenure tentenure # -- ten year plan and it would be helpful to suggest that the timing of the May 6 decision be a little bit more explicit just in the public documents as a matter of transparency. I don't want the public who will understandably be concerned about these allocation on the chart that you referred to on page 7, Mr. Chairman, I don't want the public to think that June is the decision day. I understand the budget adoption will incorporate the ten year plan, but both page 8 of the budget presentation and page 13 of the measure b presentation, have timelines that could be a little clearer and hard to do.We can certainly do that.10:48 AMAnd I also want to specifically request suggest the program principles include two bullet points. One the funding allocations are consistent with provisions of measure b and second point that we will prioritize projects that provide the greatest measure of congestion mitigation for the greater number of the countyresidents. I want to take note that we are a congestion management agency as everybody is aware and we have a powerpoint on measure b ten year plan that not once mentions the phrase congestion, addressingthe congestion management mitigation, I think that is aggressively part of the committee commitment, I think it's part of our obligation statutorially as a congestion management agency and for staff. That if all we are doing is tossing out our individual requests and providing feedback today, will this come back at the next meeting as an example to allow to come back as a formal motion to incorporate the principles. I don't want to be in a position where for some reason it's not included by staff and required to exercise the will of the board whatever that maybe.10:49 AMHendricks: I want to say a couple things, if other boards agree with you and making their comments to say that, because staff if they are hearing that more board members like something they will likely do that and if there are other adjustments that need to be done which can be done at the formal process. Do you think it should be that specific or should we be adding a criteria that talks about the outcome of whatever project is and management to come back. I just ask that because there might be other appropriate related added items to the concept.10:50 AMNo, I think congestion management is an verarching theme that can and should be called out in that regard. When we had the conversation from 2014 to 2016 going into the election, you know, there weretwo overarching oncerns that I know I articulated and a number of others did more work over a longer period of time, one was that we have a 25% cap on the bart extension and the other was that there be meaningful congestion relief throughout the entire county. And I think as staff referenced geographicconcerns in another slide and I appreciate that in terms of geographic distribution, but I think, you know, we'll all have our own views of what the public voted for, but I feel pretty clear they voted to say we aretired of the congestion, fix it, and I think that congestion mitigation should be called out as specifically because we are a congestion management agency as well, and as they say, there is no reference to it whatsoever at the moment in the 14 page document.10:51 AMYes, that's fair. we shall see what comes back with that.10:52 AMThat will be another criteria which we will eed to evaluate the capacity based for needs program and that is a base for the principal criterion. I think that's where that one belongs and the next one is the fundingallocation piece and we try to get to that by saying the principle will be for the program allocations to be done on an annual basis. The reason we didn't address the other programs is it's really difficult for those type of projects to hit those targets on an annual basis. This is where we are trying to talk about having a formula every year and wondering if that's what director simitian was thinking.10:53 AMThank you. I appreciate that. for me, the question if we spend a half billion dollars in one place, and for another place, how are we going to provide this congestion mitigation for the people. It's not meaning we are not going to move with it, but in terms of finite umber of dollars with easure b, I thought measure b pretty clearly suggested, indicated, committed congestion mitigation to it and I think that should be reflected in the criteria or both wherever it should be because we don't want to spend a half million dollars to say traffic is just as bad as it can be and we are not doing much for mitigation because we are the driving force.10:54 AMOkay, thank you.Moving on, I want to go ahead and say, there is a contact in the background. Alternates are allowed to participate in this piece. If you want to get your hand back up to get to where you were at and I apologize for cutting you off before.Thank you, chair. I have a question about the slide that is up right now on the stream which is slide 7.When we are talking about baseline numbers, I think it's really helpful to try to figure out how these principles translate into dollars. Principles being proposed right now, are these numbers on the chart a reflection of those principles and f not, could we get some kind of baseline numbers that could help us getour numerical bearings on what's being proposed here.10:55 AMWhat I will say about that is in the green bracket is to allocate those on an annual basis basis. On the numbers below, I don't know where they will end up because these idn't have any criteria around them and based on information from the city and county staff. We won't know how the numbers will come out until we do more work on developing on what the criteria are that suggest what the projects already included. I know that looks difficult, but from the top and are really close to the bottom.10:56 AMI appreciate that. that's good information. The only thing I would say is the component contributing to the baseline numbers and some of the passages on the board and allocations and how hose are affected. For instance, the 485 project, there was a board decision in October to go ahead with an alternative analysis.Where o we place those particular decisions and I would magical occasions into the whole equation. Just to get a baseline. I would request the numbers in the red box be provided to us with alignment in the green box as to how they might reflect the principles shared and that's pretty much it. I guess I will ask thatquestion in the form of the first part. As to the board decisions that have already been made, how are we treating those in items of our baseline assumptions.10:57 AMHendricks: I think what you are saying from 2018, 2019, 202020 # -- 2021, there was a pied out for those programs and those decisions from the board are going to be removed from the previous side. Does that make sense?10:58 AMYou were making sense until the very last sentence. If you are mentioning those that were allocated and those proceeding those.Correct.That's all I have.Next back to member coga.Thank you. forgive me if this is not the right discussion to bring this up, but is there room for innovation, new technologies, something that would be in the need capacity base project criterias. Is that anywhere?So from my part of the world, the county, we are trying too explore new things like transit, on demand shuttle. Is there room here for types of projects or is that, would that be somewhere else?10:59 AMIf it's a project that its within these six items that are outlined here with the caltrain grade separation for all of that. If it's a project that could fit in one of those categories, yes, it could be eligible. If it doesn't fitwithin these categories, then no.I'm wondering if it would fit in the capacity base projects category. And is innovation a criteria principle that could be applied?Again, if it fits what's listed under needs capacity based programs, those are the programs that were laid out in the measure.11:00 AMSo, if there is changes like that.Is there another pot for new innovations?Hendricks: I don't think there was one in the language.In measure b? would that be somewhere else in the budget?Yes.Okay. thank you.Member liccardo?Thank you, chair. I really appreciate this conversation and the timeline of this report and kathleen, Iappreciate you with the information that you are trying to move along and what is odd with discussion for thinking about proposals that I don't think were actually proposals.11:01 AMThat's correct.I ecall it started with this spreadsheet hat got out and talked about three of these funding streams and theassumption was to immediately review everything else and now we are with this one where scenario where it says board scenario and the board didn't necessarily approve this, this is a scenario of what the streams May look like?Yes, we would indicate that was a scenario that was shown. That's all that means.Okay. and forgive me for being super explicit but I feel because in the media we have with these proposals and plans and the plan that is the board is going to review in June and not now and we are trying to get to that point and having this conversation. It came home to me because heard two very sophisticated advocates during public comment who one who made reference to conflict and to my knowledge, I don't know any board ember that actually disagreed with the notion that whatever came out in October was not going to be the plan. I think there was a pretty unanimous view on that and there was also the suggestion of a reference to prior proposal that if this proposal is better and I just really wanted to clearly create this is part of the process, the proposal is coming. So again when I hear very sophisticated advocates tell meand public comment is telling me we are not doing a really good job at ommunicating and that's not to you kathleen, it's for us the members to make clear and to bring those proposals together and is that what will align with bart, is that fair to say?11:03 AMIt's not just one scenario that will come out that is fair to say.Okay, I think you were here, I think it was raj's final days when I asked the question on financing in particular and using tifia financing. It would be helpful to know when we can get some clarity about theextent to which we can take advantage of that very low cost of financing to be able to move some of the numbers and when we might at least have some of the very basic high level sensitivity analysis of how itaffects the cost and how it affects the program.11:04 AMWe are looking into how that would play out and obviously the decisions at any given time about which kind of financing mechanism will be used would come up and back to the board. I did hear that question last time and we will look at in general how that would work.11:05 AMOkay. great. about the word congestion that should be in there as a sensitive criterion to relief and we are also a transit agency and those are considerations that often work together but ot always but we should consider both as well. And I guess the last question I had was about measure b itself and i'm a little ashamed because I spent a lot of time working on this measure ith many partners who all put together and my regulations from back in 2015 and 2016 as we were putting together the program categories, this goes really to director coga's question. I recall there being some allocation for innovative approaches and I seei'm on the program categories list right now on the website explicitly and I see there is no dollar amount allocated and where and nuria insisted that we would have these funds available for a more of varied approach in terms of service delivery. That I wanted to raise the question.11:06 AMMarcelo, can you take that?You are not delusional and the board actually included that as to some category in transit operations.Got it.In fact, approved criteria. so the transit perations lineup in the green ection actually includes every transitoperations and a couple of programs. One of the which is innovative transit. And in fact, you approved as a board the criteria for that last year and we will be bringing the results, the call for projects to you in the next month.11:07 AMOkay, great. that might be where director coga would go to for a particular innovative project.Hendricks: was that all, sam?Yeah, thank you very much.Okay, to member chavez?Thank you, and so just a few things that I would like to offer and I will leave it to the staff to determine whether or not these go in the overarching themes or the project selection criteria. One is that I think it's very important that we have a principle or criteria around maintaining the current operation levels and xpansion of those levels as part of the criteria, and one of the points I wanted to raise is that I think, ou know, these ballot measures are viewed in the eye of the beholder and everyone of the callers will have aperspective of what they are thinking and what we are having is the goal of maintaining operations and that is what I want to be included. The second thing is acting climate considerations particularly because they can be both in conflict with each other and I think that we need to better define both as we move forward. As it relates to equity, I think equity is whether or not there is an overall fairness and when we use equity in this discussion sometimes is geographic which is sometimes equal in equality versus equity and we have the equality that need access and just given the situation we are in from the health of the earth perspective and thinking a lot about how we assess projects and programs relative to climateconsiderations. The other is that I wanted to weigh into something that margaret caught my attention onand that is relative to what community support and partner agency engagement means and, I think that at some point there has to be kind of a deeper dive as to how looks at project readiness because these are allproject readiness, but you are able to determine whether or not a project s ready but it's important for the board to understand that and for the board to understand how these are spread across for projectreadiness and eing across a category. For the staff, I apologize that I can't remember who raised this. It might have been pat. You know, one challenge on an on going basis is that communication that the vta hasdirectly with the staff and all the organizations and whether or not those organizations communicate back to the members of the board from those respective jurisdictions. You May recall that as we and kathleen, you wouldn't, but as we are getting ready for parts of the measure b, there was a lot of disruption among the board here, that board at the time and staff because you all were talking to all of our staff and neither party was clueing in the board to what was happening but it wasn't vta's fault and as we were getting to measure b, there were a lot of upset folks in the west county cities about the lack of investment in transit on the west side and I have been party to a number of meetings because I have been on the board for a long time because of the requests that we were getting from the city around roadway and construction,that kind of thing and the city leaders say, no, we are for transit and we are really getting two different stories. What I would just say is I think that even if it looks like a lot of communication, I think this is the time for over communication. When there are issues in writing between cities and the counties and everybody else that we figure out a way to make sure the board has that in their packets prior to adiscussion about any final decisions that we make about criteria or project readyiness or what the cities and county think about what investments should be made. I'm not sure of the cleanest way to do that but for every benefit here especially with newer members that May not have been communicating with their director for communication for public works. And again, I wanted to be sure I was clear about this. I think that we have to be thinking a lot about funding and funding availability, and opportunities there are for the organization to access resources. Where with do with the two year budget opportunity with the capitalinvestment so organizations can plan and start to look for resources whether that is at the state or federal level. I'm very excited about the new administration for a number of reasons, but I think one of them is that there is going to be more opportunity for stimulus investment for construction and I think that means that we have to be rea with projects that are ready to draw down resources for part of this stimuluspackage and I don't know how we have the ability to be applying for that except that for the two year rolling which I think is important but I think it's important for the board to understand what's happening atthe board and state level to think about how we might mpact opportunities for the near term. Thank you, colleagues, for letting me chime in.11:14 AMHendricks.. thank you. i'm going to director burt next but I want to remind everybody with a time check.We have about 15 minutes left, I have a couple minutes o wrap up. We are going to member burt next.11:15 AMYes, I would like to concur with what supervisor chavez just stated on the need to really integrate the staffrecommendations with the understanding of the board. I would also like to just mention in addition to the potential for innovative technologies and the bucket that was mentioned, the sr. 8 corridor was identifiedas as a corridor for those technologies and that is why the bucket didn't have a defined project, it was $250 million for when we were negotiating measure mean distinguishly when it comeso - to social equity when it has its own priorities and not just the geographic equity but really to be able to leverage the dollars into the system and the grade separation dollars that were agreed in measure b were intended to be leveraged to achieve separation or closures of the eight grade crossings between veil and palo alto andnot intended to be allocated on a couple of those first come, first served basis. We've got federal dollars for the pipeline and other long-term dollars over the course of that, but unless we leverage that, and amongstall of those crossings, we would have a partial upgraded system. So I just wanted to make sure those things are recalled from the measure b negotiations and capped in our thinking as we go forward. Thanks.11:16 AMThank you. supervisor simitian?11:17 AMThank you for the opportunity to double dip, Mr. Chair. a quick comment and question, quick comment is I was nodding and listening to supervisor chavez talk about how we all have our own recognizes andunderstanding what the voters were thinking when we went to the polls on measure b and one which is why I thought what the funding principles should be with the allocation of the provisions of measure b and I chose those words of measure b quite for that reason. I think many of s will remember and I have got the measure b in front of me, it's a very long text and after the very long text there is attachment a, b, c, d, that are very more specific about bicycle and pedestrian candidate list and vision highway programcandidate list and the expressway improvements nd the transit operations candidate projects nd programs.So, that's precisely that was what people voted on in black and white and there are these various perceptions about what motivated people and the perception that we have these marching orders and we should act as what is consistent and secondly, when we talk about financing for any of these projects, is the financing cost attributed to the project? Or is it off the top and if so, pursuant to what language,direction or decision?11:19 AMEvelyn, do you want to go ahead?I can take that question. the financing is off the top, director simitian, the tax ballot measure using the program tax revenues and that's defined. It's defined as the tax revenues over the life of the 30 yearsincluding the interest on it less any of the funds necessary for this or the borrowing cost and once that number is identified, that is used to establish the allocation ratios that's in the tax measure itself.Ms. tran, I think I will take limited time today but if you are amenable, I would like to ask if you can work with my staff to identify the language and its impact. I think t clearly has the potential to be relevant if we are talking about for the sake of discussion language that talks about $750 million for highway interchanges, for financing, is that number affected by the interest cost or is that separate and apart, same with bart, same with any of these various projects. So I think before we get further down the path at least for me, knowing how that affects it, particularly if we have a 25% cap on bart but we are being 3 asked to say no, that's 25% plus interest, that's a different significant order. I will ask my staff to work with you if that's amenable?11:21 AMThank you. -Hendricks: did you have something quick, director burt?No, sorry, I already spoke.Okay, so i'm not seeing any hands up right now. I think this was actually a very good discussion and I appreciate the comments. I just took a couple notes and I want to go ahead and highlight and i'm sure staff took more than I did. When that came out, it was very clear as to the timing and being very specificas to what the next steps are going to be so people have a clear understanding as to when those hing are going to occur. I think we heard some information about congestion management and the provisions ofmeasure b and I will clarify that into the provisions of what we had. For me, I want to highlight the ig numbers that go into whatever the ultimate slide is for the big numbers, but we need to remember that weneed to be allocating certain amount of funds to get to that readiness status to be prepared to be able to take advantage of funding that goes on. I wanted to go ahead and ask staff, did you guys get the feedback you were looking for on criteria and principles?11:22 AMYes, thank you very much. we heard quite a bit and we'll take that into account and that's when we'll come back to you in what we bring next time to actually approve these and then use those for developing the ten year program and the two year budget. It's very helpful.Yeah, and I would just hope as it relates to the timing to get that out so we don't have to wait a long time to understand what that ooks like.Right, thank you.I'm not seeing anything else. i'm going to thank my colleagues for some good discussion and I want to go back to apologize to director rennie for cutting him off. This is an information item. We don't need a motion because that will come back later. I'm at item no. . Other items. I don't have anything here. Does anyone have any announcements? Again, i'm not seeing any. What we are going to do now and thank you my colleagues because we are actually a couple minutes early. We are going to adjourn the workshop now to continue to go into our special meeting. So right now, i'm closing the workshop. I'm reconvening thespecial meeting at 11:23. We will now recess to closed session. We'll be back to the zoom open session at the conclusion of the closed session and at this time, I would like to ask my colleagues to mute your zoom and video microphones and go into your other sessions. Thank you very much.11:24 AMThis is elaine from the board office. If you need me to resend the calendar invites for the closed session.The calendar