Public speaker: hello, i'm here once again in support of eastridge light rail bart station. It shouldn't be at the cost of our east side community who has been relying on this transit and waiting for this project for the past 20 years. Currently the cost of materi are increasing, labor costs a higher and most of all the cost-of-living is a lot higher than 20 years ago. We could no continue to delay this project any longer and we look to yo support. Thank you. [ applause ]6:53 PM> [ spanish speaker ]Interpreter: she would like this project to keep going for the youth as well as the people and the youth need to keep thr education going and the elderly might have activities and their appointments they might need to attend. It's very necessary for the community because taking that many high school students they might have doubts where to go and how they might be able budget is if they cut down thi project. I'm asking you guys o keep this project going becaus it has been money all right in vested in this project. Thecommunity has been waiting almost two decades. Thank you. [ applause ]6:55 PMSo after, if we could have garcia, hugo marquez, eugene bradley bradley salvador bustamante. Public speaker: hi, I will try to keep it short but he's a passionate human being and has a lot to say. [ laughter ]oftentimes we talk about the last mile about connecting point a to point b. Usually it is deliver major transit commuters to their jobs. It's that first mile. They do not have the ease to get there. Our community hs to worry about something as simple as their first mile. We need to ensure that east side residents have public access to transportation. We need to ensure they have equal access to public transportation. This is a racial and economic and environmental issue. I know this can be sometimes a little controversial when we talk about budgeting, but this is so important to our community. Thank you. [ applause ]6:56 PMGood evening, everybody. my name is -- fayed. I have li here for 40 years. This project as it was promised and it's b a long time. This council is act upon it and deliver this project as promised. And also, i'm thankful to have the mayor's support and thankful for the council members. My thank goes to Mr. Cortese for finishing this project. Please support this project. Thank you very much.6:57 PMThank you. [ applause ]Council member teresa o'neill: Mr. Marquez? public speaker: good afternoon. My name is hugo marquez.I'm here to talk about the light rail extension to eastridge. It was voted years ago and that measure is older than me. That measure was passed before I even born. And I have been a frequent user of the bus and I can tell you going from my school to eastridge, it takes about 40 minutes. So having this light rail would rape he us students like me and also workers too because all the ea siders are working class. Thankyou. [ applause ] public speaker: eugene bradley, silicon valley transit user. I echo your time for publiccomment, one minute. Bad for your image. This much can be said though it's funny that silicon valley likes to tell the whole world while we keep back our own b driving back our bus service the mid-1980s. As you delibera on how to further reduce our s service and to have the 20 yea wait. For mayor liccardo, as youdeliberate on further reducing bus service, considering the mayor liccardo's recent collision and this furtherservice, with such decisions would this accident not happen if he had not cut the drivers bus service forcing him into that suv in the first place? Think about it. Thank you. Public speaker: good evening, i'm salvador bustamante. I'm here to say it is time for you to finally make this project te reality for the residents of theeast side. They waited long enough. Our members work very hard to help pass measure b s there will be enough money. The money is there. There is no excuse for which you should not approve this project. So our expectation that are coming in june, there will be a unanimous vote from this board of directors to make this project happen once and for all. Tha you very much.7:01 PMThank you. ernesto? public speaker: buenas tardes. [ spanish speaker ]Good afternoon, i'm a resident of san jose. I want yu to start the project. And as you why the other extension t los gatos. Why were those connections approved and why are we still waiting for this one that's it. [ applause ]7:02 PMThank you.Roland? public speaker: my name is roland, a resident of south sa jose. I'm one of the 80,000 people who have been waiting for eight miles of tracking betwe this road and the last 20 year i'm one of the lucky ones r now. We are stuck in traffic. The vta allocated $40 million 2070 feet of light rail in mountain view for super bowl 50. We need housing. We have converting the eastridge parking lot to tojd and funding torefund the $24 million from measure a that you stole from us. Thank you. Public speaker: thank you to the board for the chance to address you about this. I realize this is an item that is not on the agenda. It occurrto me that this won't be the last time that we talk about opportunity and the environmental justice andeconomic mobility. I work at t community farm in district 5 and i'm a resident of district 6d take my bike between the tw often. We work with hundreds kids every year as a farm ande talk to them about examples just like this and how certain neighborhoods are often disproportionately impacted by negative environmental consequences and how investments need to be made in an equitable way and to counter those consequences. I think it would be an incredible thing in fu instances and to just talking about in field trips, to think of the examples of this environmental justice connecting to economic mobility in ourcommunity. Thank you.7:04 PMThank you. [ applause ] ( calling names ) public speaker: hello, good evening. My name is pedro. Werepresent the labor 270. And we are concerned about this project. Since 1980, 20 years 40 years, for this light rail and our east side community has been left outside. Why? How long will it take to make thisproject a reality? The community is paying taxes for this matter. Each side has t be put aside why? And anoth project. Priorities, and we need this transportation for faster and better transportation. Education, asmany other priorities for our community. Our community has to be here, not put aside. It's kind of discrimination for ou hispanics population concentration in that area. Need action, we need this project. A lot of businesses will be benefitting on this area eastridge, some of the stores have gone away.7:06 PMThank you, Mr. Yanez.We need to grow and get a of opportunities. We need that for better community and communication.Thank you very much.Thank you, Mr. Yanez. [ applause ] public speaker: good evening, everyone. What brother yanez just spoke, i'm just going to touch on that. My name is oliv navarro. I'm proud to represen close to 7,000 local 270 mes which most of them live I san jose. I'm glad to see a l of happy familiar faces here and I wanted to say thank you for listening to us, but i'm as you guys to listen to what you listened to 20 years ago. A tof our community and a lot of our members are like pedro yanez, retirees. They are unfortunately unable to drive or have mobility access as they d back 20 years ago. So what we are asking you guys to do isbasically follow through on your promise. We have already allocated the money. We need t make sure the light rail servi comes to east san jose. It would definitely not open up the opportunity for the east sidecommunity to leave because I keep hearing that. It to op the opportunity for the people outside of the san jose and see how beautiful it is. We have a lot of culture there and it great for them that they will now have that ability. Please pass that. Thank you so much. [ applause ]7:08 PMThank you. greg. public speaker: hi, my name is greg. I have been a resident o san jose. I lived in theevergreen area. I lost everything and never have take public transit. In the last fw years, I have taken every bus and light rail. It's very disjointed. East has the main hub at eastridge like downtown, like diridon and the san jose bus stations. I voted for this measure in 2000 even though I had never taken publictransportation. It's very frustrating. Why are you diverting funds between your citizens and constituents. Alot of people don't have jobs because they can't get there. I encourage you people to cut down on your homelessness by some fraction, but I encourage you to do so. Thank you. [ applause ]7:09 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: I talked to you guys a couple weeks ago at t meeting at vta. I don't know you remember me. I didn't retire to come to this bore to k talking to you guys about what needs to be done. This project been on the books for over 20 years. I don't want to spend another 20 years talking to the elected officials to get you guys to do what needs to be done. When you guys want positions, you come to your constituents and they listen and they elect you guys. Now it's time for you guys to listen your constituents. All right? This project has been on wait too long, way too long, wait o long. All of these people are tirf it. What is it going to tak what will it take for you gu to do what the constituents a them for?I can be doing o things on a Thursday night w my time. [ laughter ] this is not what I signed up for. My time is up and so I your time for delaying the lt rail to eastridge. [ cheers and applause ]7:10 PMGood evening. public speaker: good evening, members of the board, nathan, working partnerships. Thank you for hearing that support for e light eastridge light rail project. There has been a lot of confusion on this issue. I'm glad to be here to get clarity on what will happen with the eastridge light rail project. 2 years, the people have been at# taxed repeatedly waiting after one measure and we want to know when it will start and start t connect thousands of families to their jobs throughout the bay area. There is a conversation to be had about efficiency and ridership. I'm more than willing to have that conversation. As part of the ad hoc committee, we are waiting for this efficiency and to implement this as part of the budget process. We don't need t delay the mobility needs of t east side families in order to do that. Thank you again for your support.7:12 PM( calling names ) please get in line. Is robert lopez still here? Public speaker: thank you, board, for allowing us to speak this evening. I am not from san jose. I'm from california. I' transplant. My husband moved toevergreen in san jose a couple years ago because he works for cisco and they were talking about moving and that didn't materialize. So for 15 years drove from evergreen to milpitas. Every time he had a reason to not drive in, why don't you take the public transportation and I heard how magical the transportation was in the bay area and then I moved up here and was shocked how disconnected our little part of san jose is from the rest of the bay. And every time he told m about how it's so difficult t get from where I am to milpit, I never believed him. Now I understand and now that i'm a taxpayer in santa clara county, it's selfish that i'm interested in this work. Thank you so much.7:13 PMThank you. alexander? public speaker: good evening, board. I'm just going -- how many have lived in san jose? I have lived in san jose most of my life and lived in eastridge we had an opportunity to watch this county grow. But I can t you, we need to have the lig rail continue to eastridge. The reason being is that one has been promised to us and we've done everything for everyone else. It's time for us to hav that too.I have been waiting to ride the light rail to eastridge. May I ride it before I die? [ laughter ] also, I was in a car accident not long ago and I had to t public transportation. And I would still like to go to eastridge and be able to do that. Another thing too, growing up in this county, I have always had the opportunity to have public transportation. I would love for my grand kids to ride the light rail to eastridge. Please make this areality. Thank you very much. [ applause ]7:14 PM( calling names ) please get in line. Next speaker, please. Public speaker: I have lived in evergreen for 30 years. Next to the sikh temple. Most of you know that place. It took me five minutes to get there. It takes me 20 minutes best on an day today to get to the hig. So to get out of evergreen is almost double my time or to anywhere. In the late 90s, m company gave us three vta ca I tried it once. It took m minutes to get to santa clara. It was not worth it. So I wanted to pay the tax. I woul really like to see the light rail come to eastridge so we can benefit and get out of that place. Evergreen has grown so tremendously. It's not a farm please. Work with us.7:15 PMThank you, sir. [ applause ] public speaker: thank you, members of the vta board. My name is matt savage. A resident of santa clara county my entire life. Like I said at the meeting two weeks ago, everywhere I have lived I have lived. I have lived in mountain view, sunnyvale. This entire time, residents of district 8 have not been able to get to light rail without driving up to district 5. The have been promised this. This has been since I was born in the 80s. I have been promised it since the 2000s since high school and they are still waiting for it. The light rai does have its issues. I think modernization is important but it shouldn't be at the cost o light rail to east valley. Thank you. [ applause ] public speaker: my name is riley.The center opened in 1971, a year before public transit service began in santa clara county. We have beenserving the residents of the santa clara county. Between 2005 we invested over $150 million in property and the bt investment of this economic development in our region and continue serving our community. In the last year, we had 25 square feet of art and holdover 150 events every month. The response is profound. We see the needs in our neighbors and they are showing up to embrace our change. When we are lookin for ridership, look to the people and the communities that need it most. Evergreen and east side have helped shaped the future of the region. By connecting ridership to eastridge is a mass it opportunity.Please invest in this. I'm happy to work togr for a better standard for public transit to be better in ourcommunity. Thank you. [ applause ] public speaker: hi, good afternoon. I want to kindly remind vta to please stop disrespecting the east side of san jose with your poor decision making. We have been promisedthis project for over 20 yea we have paid into the funding o it. There is every reason that everyone back here is frustrated. It makes sense. It is in good faith that we hav paid into this and it is time for you to deliver. Please, v, stop treating the east side of san jose as your step child. I am in support that you stay thcourse and you deliver the vta light rail to our corridor. Thank you.7:19 PMThank you very much. public speaker: hello, i'm justin. Thank you all for your leadership. San jose with bart, we didn't need it at the time and now we are struggling to g it. Before it get swept out o development and suddenly gets routed to different regions. This is unacceptable. We need t follow through with this promise development. There are no one near the bus stations. This is a an a suppression. This took amajor toll on the east side. East side is very unaware of city development now. We need do better for this side of silicon valley. We come down that road and it's a blend of city hall. A big cold slab o building. That's what this feels like. Thank you.7:20 PMThank you.I'm glad to be here and see this great turnout. I had a conversation with the budget manager and director and others. So I want to work in a collaborative way towards that end, and I look forward to som positive solutions. We have done a great job with san jose va. Let's shuffle that great job. Want to make it a three-peat with route 65 left lanes # -- thank you for your time.7:21 PMOkay, now we can move on item 5 which is public hearings. We don't have any public hearings on tonight's agenda. We will move to item 6. Committee reports.Excuse me madam chair, we have a person here with a visual impairment that was supposed to speak to item 4 also.Okay, please help her.Public speaker: thank you, my name is linda mccloud. A volunteer in california and lifelong residents of santa clara county. I'm here to oppose the adoption of the 2019 new transit plan and instead urge the adoption of the 2017 new network plan which involve the cutting of route 65 from ml library. This is a route proposed by your staff in 2017. In 2017, your staff estimated that it ridership would actually be 16 people per hour, and now, the same route is only 3 persons per hour. There is no explanation for thisdiscrepancy. I'm urging you - can I have some extra time.7:23 PMGo ahead and finish, ma'aAs many of you know from my letters that I sent to all of you as well as my videos posted to social media, line 65 has allowed me to maintain my independence while raising my family and working and now myretirement. The purported reasons for these cuts, money s a double edge sword. There is o tax to put on the quality of life. This is sustained investment which the votest have supported, not cuts which leads that public transportation to wither on the vine. A measure the words on this county is ho it treats it's seniors, it's disabled, students and other marginalized communities. Adopting this new plan without giving the next network plan to work in conjunction with bart undermines this goal and breaches the trust. I strongly ask that you reconsider and line 65. Thank you. [ applause ]7:24 PMThank you. we'll go on to committee reports and the first one is item 6. 1. 6. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter) welcome, marty.Good evening and thank you chair o'neill and vice-chair chavez and the board. I am the chair of the cats.We reviewe and accepted the report from the citizens watch dog committees independent ngo. For this y2018 measure a, the order is indicated in the report that the vta complied with the requirements and the period ended June 30, 2018. As the meeting, we decided to conducted the 2000 measure a on the puhearing of Wednesday May 8 o next week at the river oaks campus in b 106. Every here wo is actively wanting to speak will come and voice their concerns or whatever they feel they want to say on the audit.We May edit the public not the staff are to be commended for their skills and publishing on line via news and social media. And we have actually increased some of our outreach to usa and other markets. Lastly, after a very robust discussion, the committee recommended board adoption of the 2019 new transit service plan, an item on your regular agenda tonight and our comments outlined in the staff report. Are there any questions?7:26 PMCouncil member teresa o'neill: vice-chair chavez.7:27 PMSupervisor cindy chavez: thank you very much. So, marty, ft of all thank you and thank you for coming in person to these meetings. I'm just wondering if you wanted to highlight if there is anything you wanted to talk about the discussion relative to the buses and the like and the transit coverage in some areas and not of others. I don't know if that came up with your group?It did come up, and there were lots of different opinions and some concerns. Aaron, who is on the transit access committee is also on rtwc. He did expre some concerns. We are hearing from some of the disabledcommunity about some of the lines. To be honest with you, I think the work done on this n transit plan is remarkable. We have been privy to the presentations and to the outreach that they have made, and it is not an easy solut you know that better than I do, but I think where we are now, that there was a unanimous feeling and this is the best plan we have and we need to mo forward with that.7:28 PMThank you.That was pretty much our conclusion on our recommendation.Thank you.I do have a card on this item. Andrew boone. Public speaker: good evening, directors, my name is andrewboone on stockton avenue in san jose. I attended the April 10, citizens advisory committee meeting because I wanted to share my concerns about the changes to the bus service, in particular, the restoration by recommendation of the vta staff that bus 22 over night service. Staff decided after all that w not a good idea. What I think didn't work very well at that meeting was the fact that I wasn't the only member of thepublic. There were two others who were primarily interested in that bus service plan, not in the financial, the audit reports, though I understand wy that is important and the committee has to discuss that, but we were interested in the bus plan and the changes that happened this year and that was at the end of the agenda. So something that is of high interest to the public of something that is happening right now that is a major chan that will have to carry on, t it not be at the end of the agenda.7:30 PMThe report from chair hendricks for the policy advisory committee is in the reading folder. We'll moveforward to the next standing report which is for 6. 3. 6. 3. Standing committee chairpersons' report.(verbal report)Thank you very much. the committee met April 6th. And we'll discuss the next item an recommended the approval of the plan and a summary is in the staff report.Council member teresa o'neill: thank you very much. Board member carr, will you have your report for the meeting of the administration and finance committee, please?7:31 PMMy apologies, thank you, chair o'neill. Our finance committee met April 18th. And asks for consent agenda item 7. 2, 7. 3, 7. 4 and ask that that be included in the agenda and all the items are included in your packet.Thank you very much. now board member jones.7:32 PMThank you, the safety and transit committee met Friday April 19th and had a robust discussion on the 2019 service plan. Item 8. 2 on tonight's regular agenda. The committee unanimously recommended approval of the plan. A summary of the committee's comments on this item is on the staff report. W also received an update on t light rail track project and received a report on riderships.Okay, thank you. I do not have a report for the governance and audit committee. That will take us to the sr 85 policy advisory committee. Chair mcallister will provide that board.Thank you, the board held a workshop April 22nd. The workshop participants includes members and staff along the corridor. Vta staff provided three initial project designs for the corridor. Staff selected alternative and project goals as discussed in the past which include fast travel speed, maximum passenger through put and maximized access. As part of this presentation, staff also reviewed operating plans and funding and policy considerations that maybe applied to the various designs. The majority of the workshopsconsisted of staff feedback regarding the alternatives for these issue. Vta staff will consider the feedback received and refine the alternatives and potential operating options to be included in the next study7:33 PMThank you very much. that will take us to item 7. The consent agenda. The consent agenda are items 7. 1 through 7. 5. Are there any of the board members?7:34 PMMayor liccardo?I would like to recuse myse from 7. 3.Is there a motion on the consent calendar? Before we vote, we have a card on this item, Mr. Lebron would like to speak on item 7. 3. Public speaker: thank you. So I would like to briefly touch on the homes. I know it a budge impact into millions of dollar allocated to them. This is looking more and more like a consultant fit. This is exactly what governor newsom is addressed in sacramento right now. That is what the keepingthe full time positions. I attended the presentation and they showed a couple slides next consultant. Some of them are just sitting around doing e-mails. Why are we paying fo these people? If you look at it, we are getting no profit f the billion dollars. We have not to show for it. Last thing, t prior manager was the first todictate about the station and worry about it later. We are going to have to do something about it at some point.7:35 PMThank you. any other comments? If not, we have a motion and second. All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? 8. 1. Action item - review and accept the fiscal year 2019 statement of revenues andexpenses for the period ending December 31, 2018. Board of7:36 PMThank you, chair o'neill. revenues were $27. 7 million over budget. This was primarily due to sales tax base revenues whh reflect receipt of previously unprocessed returns of fy 18 funds $17 million over budget. This includes receipt of fy 18 related revenues. Expenses for the second quarter of fy 19 we $21. 3 million below budget primarily due to savings from delayed implementation of the planned service enhancement and emergency management and also the late start of the highway bus battery replacement program and title for the campaign for the light rail overhaul. Current projection for fy 19 reflect a positive operating balance of $16. 9 million. This has a couple components, revenues increasing to 68. 8 merely from budgeted revenues and unbudgeted revenues. And operating and other expenses are reduced by $4.4 million again delayed of service expansion and from project related activities and debt service savings.The projected balance of $6. 6 would leave an operating reserve of 9. 6% which is a goal below 15% and this did not impact any labor negotiations underway. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:37 PMAny questions by the board? board member chavez?7:38 PMSupervisor cindy chavez: when you say full impact, there is some impact on the budget, we just don't know the final.There is a projection, but we can't know.Got it. I just wanted to make sure I heard that correctly. The follow-up is one of the speakers made a comment about having a conversation wi you particularly about line 6 and I was curious if you could reflect on that conversations for us?Sure. he made a request t whether there were ways to find funding for the line. He had suggested looking at capital projects to see if those could be delayed or maybe wouldn't take all of their funding. I explained to him the capital o time on going expense is not really a good way to go about it. You need to find somethi that is recurring in order to do that. So we discussed what other options there would be and Igave my same, it's a zero sum gain, but if it has to come somewhere and if it was recurring, that was the desire.7:39 PMThank you.Mayor liccardo?Thank you for the report, a small question and bigger question. One is, there is a reference on page 3 that ther was a $60 million increase in transfer to capital reserve. Did I see $65 million in lin 42?Yes, we originally budget 5.I see. and there is 18, 1 set add for local capital and $35 million. The budget only included $5 million for each year. As budgeted we were 60 million short where basically we were over the two years from what we need to fully fund the two year contribution for local.7:40 PMOkay, it makes sense that shift that to capital because there is a lot of one time moy there.Correct.I'm trying to understand as you parse this out. The $1. 86 million in the total new unbudgeted revenues between s. B. 1 and delayed sales tax revenues that were disbursed. How much of that is actually on going that we could budget in the future?They are budgeted in 20-21 and so is the $30 million, the capital budget. The full $35 is capital budgeted in both years. I look at it this way. Be of the delayed revenues from 18 and 19. If you normalize th and show the 18 revenues that belong in 18, then we woul been able to fully fund the $ million capital last from. If you look at the years in total, yes, you are right, those are recurring revenues going forward, but we got in some cases two years worth in just year two of the budget.7:41 PMOkay. I think I probably didn't ask the question very well. Let me try to reframe signed it, we are going into this roughly with a $20 million deficit we got this year?With the budget, yes.Given what we know about o going revenues which I think is s. B. 1, how much of that hold do we think is at $20 million I structural deficit by these new on going revenues?7:42 PMThe proposed 20 and 21 budget have a small $2 million and 20 and $4 million in 21 positive balance.Okay.And they show the full o going fta revenues for s. B. 1 previously fta got $20 per year. So that's $25 million per year. That's the piece of it that gets us there. There are other parts that get us there, but with those on going additional revenues and the changes from the ad hoc committee to the service plan to the amount ofservice that is going to be provided lowers the expenses enough and you've got the additional revenues, that's how we come out relatively balanced with the caveat that full labo is not -- the impact is notincluded.7:43 PMThank you very much. I appreciate that.Council member teresa o'neill: are there any other questions? Any comments from the public? I really wanted t have that discussion here because there has been very hard work and some discipline and thefact of the impact of these on time funds and thank you for s b. 1 and the wisdom chose to vote for the referendum on it so is that we can hold the budge the budget is still extremel tight. We have to be verydisciplined going forward. So we don't find ourselves in a very difficult situation going forward. Is there a motion to accept the record? There is a motion and second. All in favor say, 'aye'.7:44 PMAye.Any opposed? okay, thank you very much. That will take us to item 8. 2. Which is directors 8. 2. Action item - adopt the final 2019 new transit service plan for implementation in late 2019 coincident with theopening of the bart extension to berryessa. Transit planning will provide the presentation.Good evening, i'm going jump right into this. I have a lot to cover. First a reminder in nex network goal, we had a two y discussion on the next planning process and the three goals were to increase ridership and thetwo new stations, the two ne bart stations and the transit network. What i'm going to explain to you does all three of these. I will set the stage there so we can keep that I mind. A little bit of background as to how we got here today. Te last time we changed our nex network when we did our comprehension analysis there since 2008. It's long over d and time to update our netwo to reflect the changes of our county. Back in 2008 to 202 we hired jerry walker, the renounced and transit planner in the world. It took two year do the next network plan and got over 10,000 points from the community. I'm very proud of the points we got with the community with lots of feedback. In 2017, in may, we adopte board. You adopted the nextnetwork plan. Early 2018, vta implemented that next network plan with bart opening with t 7 and the 22 and the green lin other than that, next network has been waiting for the bart station to open and thendirected staff to revise the next network plan which is what we have today. We have the 201 new transit service plan which is based on that network but with some modifications. Those modifications are shown on the slide which is essentially to reduce the amount of service o the plan to approximate the service level and to do that coverage of the service balance which is the total amount above to the 90/10 ridership which is a ride ship oriented network and while maintaining service to south county. We just finished in January and February we d another community process to collect as much feedback as we could. I'm going to demonstrate that in a second. We had multi-meetings and multi-languages and we had over 1500 comments. I think we di great job and the community was really helpful and gave us great feedback as you will see. We also conducted two analysis and first the title 6 analysis to determine that both of themresulted in good news. No im to minority communities and low-income communities is what we found object -- on the service to low-income communities. Same thing with the geographic analysis to see how it would impact the geographic availability to access per service service. No additional impact. Good news there on both. I he some slides to describe the service changes to the draft plan as you might remember on the january. There is no c to the draft plan. It's the same plan you saw. The next network plan is the blue lineo bay pointe and alum rock station. And almaden. 70% of the feedback we received contained five different topics. This is the route 22. The t line. The first we made based community feedback. Our draftplan we proposed to discontinue overnight service from 1-4 a. M. And on the route 22, we are proposing to maintain that service particularly service low-income service workers. The second change is the community express bus program. In the draft plan, you might remember that we proposed to reduce the total cost of the express program by a half. Half was eliminating some of the trips on the routes. On the final plan we are deferring all of those cuts until staff can develop a new partnership program in collaboration with our employer partners and we are going to do that in early 2020 to get that going in early 2020. We need a little bit more time and want to do it right and w to work collaboratively with the employee groups. I will note that this plan doe assume those reductions. We will have to save resources on th program. That is forth come to the board. The third item is route 42. The draft plan we proposed no changes here, but based on feedback from the locations that you see on the right hand side side of the screen there, to theeast of the 101, and what you heard tonight from the university and the san and # - san andreas regional center. We are proposing to move that route to serve all the locations, sa jose and mexican consulate andcarrying ton college and north eastern university and san andreas regional center. The third topic of concern from the community. This is hard to explain. I'm going to jump forward to the map here. I want to acknowledge michael lee from the almaden community. He submitted a packet to us on ho we can increase the service in the valley. This comes from those great concepts and ideas. Maybe he should be on my staff.The draft plan here you mig see proposed eliminating the service that going goes to th current route 13 on the bottom of the screen and replace the purple line with route 80. We are proposing now to consolidate 3 routes, the 3, 64 and the this is a net cost thing to do this replaces the purple line service and that frees up resources to put back into restoring route 13 service which is 83 on the map on the righ hand side.Bottom line we save in resources and am den valley gets their service. Again, another improved plan withfeedback. The sixth change we made was rapid 522 to improve the early morning frequencies from 20minutes to 15 minutes and w plan to defer those improvements until resources permit us to make those improvements. It's not justified at this time. No. 7 is route 66, the fina change from the draft plan. We had proposed no changes in the draft plan on this route. In the final plan we propose to expand the frequent network and the expansion into milpitas and improve that frequency so that route runs every ten minutes a weekdays and that provides the expansion of the next network north. Those are the seven changes in the service plan. I have two slides that show t changes from the bart station. That shows the bus rail andservice from the milpitas bart. You can see the variety of service that is going to prove riders ridership in the valley. So quite a new amount of servi in milpitas and the rapid 523 o downtown san jose. All of theother changes remain as proposed in the draft plan. So of those five topics that I talked to you about, there were two that we were not able to p back and couldn't fit this in the budget. The fourth was the blue line service at bay point this is something that staff is going to monitor, day one, we one, after bart opens.We are going to be watching transit activity to make sure there is sufficient rail service at the bart station.The second, the fifth one which you already heard tonight is route 65. This is a very low ridership todaythat goes between downtown san jose and south san jose, the area that is not showing enough ridership per hour. The proposal stands to not offer that ser in the final plan. So, there are some context here and we included this slide to explain to make sure it's cl that there were a number of decisions made in the next network process that we didn't reopen that discussion with the community this time. So this is kind of an example and i'm n going through the list here. Just to show you this is building on the foundation of the next network and the high ridership replaced by other routes and the west lowrider ship service. I want to tell a story to explain the transit service plan and show how this service p is going to improve folks liv.These slides here show a graphical view on how folks c get farther and faster on the next network. Up drop a perso anywhere in the county and you can show with the zones here how far that person can get withinan hour on the transit network and the new transit network an the jobs, the $1. 1 million job in our county.You can see t bart station, someone can get 326,000 jobs and will be able to get additional 105,000 new job here is an example to mountain view, where you can get 41,000 new jobs. In the college, 62,000 jobs.You can see this in the reverse, here the residents of the county and where they can go. The reverse to where they can go to. San jose state and additional 41,0 resident is will have access to this. This slide here shows the same thing for all the downtown. We are not just cherry picking and showing you the good once one7:58 PM-- the other way to look this is how many folks live in a five minute walk for the routes for weekends and weekday. Yo can see the reds are the folks where people live in transit that is 75,000 residents. In the future plan, it's 836,000 residents. More than a million residents will live within a five minute walk of the frequent transit network including all the way down to gilroy. We are very excited about that. Including the job rate. 280,0 of our jobs are within a f minute walk within transit today. In addition there will be an additional 204,000 jobs near frequent transit. So in the beginning I told you about the goal and how it'sshowing how we are getting mor cost-effective. 79% increase in ridership. We are tracking nearly 3 million net new riders on the transit network with the slight increase and the higher service in hours. So clearlmore cost-effective compared t today's transit network. This is what the board adopted last yr a monitoring program and we intend not to just put out thi service and let it be. We'll changing monitoring service,reporting on that service, conducting analysis on the service and creating service change recommendations driven by data and policy. We will always be reporting back and improving the network as we go. Finally next steps here, after the adoption today, give staff basically over the summer to all the activities we need to do to complete this network. And didn't mention this earlier, but I want to reiterate that the new service will start when the bt service begins as all one big package that comes together. I wanted to point out something we heard during our community outreach about the route 54 a the concern on the 54 is that the 54 is going away and it serves a sunnyvale shelter. B the route gets there much better. It's a net increase and much better service for the shelter. I'm happy to report and correct that. I don't know where we went wrong on that communication. I just wanted to correct the record. That concludes my report.8:01 PMThank you very much. are there any questions from board members? If not, I will go to the public first.8:02 PMThe first speaker will be judy followed by michael lee, followed by karen. Public speaker: good evening, i'm judy with silicon valley transit users. And I did take the bus tonight and i'm using the bike locker outside because I have a problem with losing bicycles. When i'm thrilled to see the increase in service o the 42 because getting service into those places where people actually go is a really big deal. But overall we are still talking about under funding of our transit services. And I want to talk about transit justice. When measure b was being sold to the voters, it talked about improving service to those that are transitdependent and helping people ot with the first and last mile and a great portion of what you are cutting deals with that first and last mile. So I hope open the discussion on the reallocation of measure b toeffectively deal with the services that people really need. Thank you.8:03 PMThank you very much. judy. michael lee? Public speaker: i'm michael lee from valley communityassociation. First I would like to thank the vta staff for incorporating our suggestions for how to implement 83 wh vital to our community. But I urge vta to think creatively an what to do with 65. There is number of reasons that we talk about. Vta states that it will costyou.8:04 PM( calling names ) next speaker, please. Public speaker: thank you for letting me be here and talk about this. I'm karen marli representing our veterans in san jose. I'm in favor of changes t bus route 42 because it will allow low-income and disabled and independent patients safe access to our clinics. Right n we have patients who are not able to access the clinics and missing their doctor appointments needing to transfer to other clinics and we have those trying to walk over t pass which is determined to be fairly unsafe. So I know that not all veterans using public transit, but our goal is to serve and reach all possible patients. I want to finish by saying I have heard many times and support that housing is health care and thattransportation is health care too. Thank you for your time d considering the needs of your local veteran, low-income, senior and disabled population.8:05 PMThank you. rose? okay. Teresa paris? Public speaker: good evening, board, my name is teresa perez and resident of gilroy. I'm h to ask you to support the ro 17 and gilroy which is set to be eliminated. This is a low-income area and the ridership and the reason for termination of the route for vta. The riders on thebus are going to social serv and hope reentry center. This is the most vulnerable of our community. The only one which a monterey road which is a 15 minute walk. Our office is here to break down the barrier due t this poverty and unemployment. This is one more to add to th list. In the summer we expect large amounts of clients to apply for benefits. Imagine these clients having to walk to monterey road to our office. R transportation aid said we can continue this route to bus to gilroy and he hopes to see the value of maintaining the routes. It's upsetting he has not made the consideration for the routes. Public speaker: hi, good evening. Thank you for having us. My name is john and i'm a veteran. And I see personally asscheduling there those making appointments and they can't get there because of travel issues. I think it's ironic that we have this beautiful building, beautiful facility right off the freeway that is so difficult forpeople to get to. So the idea of building this facility to serve the people that we are supposed to be serving actually is a hindrance for them to get to compared to the old one whi was within two miles. What I want to ask is, first of all, let me ask you, are we doing that 42 for those areas?8:08 PMIf the board adopts the plan, the board the 42 will serve th vta -- va. This is an important one. Thank you very much for your consideration.8:09 PMThank you. next speaker, please. Public speaker: thank you very much, directors. My name is andrew boone on stockton avenue. I'm glad you will no longer cut the bus 22 overnight. Cutting this bus will be devastating where it's not just for people wanting to sleep for an hour o people like myself looking to get home and to work. This drives santa clara county. I would like to read a letty monica malone who is a teamleader with me. As you know fr my previous comments i'm against the proposed elimination of bus route 65. I hope you real the level of bus measures. The money is sitting there in measure b. It's currently gogto be spent on widening highways, on building more car traffic jambs instead of bus service. No one is asking for this. No one comes to these meetings saying please give us more highway interchanges. Everyperson comes to ask don't cut y bus and we need better bus service.8:10 PMThank you. next speaker, please. Public speaker: my apologies. I wrote this for two minutes. Name is mary beth bowman on behalf of arp, 160,000 santa clara county members. Transit options are key component ofbeing an aging friendly community. Every city in santa clara county has signed onto this network. These service cu will negatively impact those who need it most and those to perform their daily functions. We also know that bus service these ride ships. The investment in public transport options especially bus service can even sustain or increase i. I have a copy of the report. Rather than cut service, it's important to adopt the next network which is to completely redesign the network in order to connect the bart and increase overall ridership. We understand this 2017 staff report was bas on bart to santa clara county. We also believe that the ad hoc committees November 30, 2018, recommendations to the vta board to examine opportunities diversify vta and delay consideration of the 2019 transit service plan until the next network has the opportunity to connect bart for at least two years and require any service reduction by providing clear and transparent data demonstrating how older adults will be serviced through these cuts.Public speaker: good evening. I'm a resident of los altos. I would like to strike up a compromise, but route 51 runs from west mountain to deanza college. We would like to see that bus about two times in themorning, two times in the afternoon, just go around the block a little bit as it leaves south to deanza college so y can serve the kids going to cupertino middle school and deanza school. There are hundreds of parents that wrote letters saying their kids ride this bus. I think these students will be our riders of the future and will extend coverage in the future. Right now you have parents driving 1. 5 miles. It takes them over an hour to do it everyday. This is right where all of your commuters are going and it's slowing everyone. Let's try to find a way that doesn't make it as complicated.8:14 PMThank you. ( calling names ) public speaker: good evening, once again, board members. I commend the board and staff f at least keeping, this is eugene bradley, silicon valley. I commend staff for keeping theand at least having the 42 s the va hospital and the other side of the 101. Per ms. Malone's letter, losing the 65 is not very good especially when those expect to have these upon these ballot measures for 20 it really makes you wonder, we say it is the future but we keep going back to the 1950s. According to your own bus facts, you have the same number of buses as you did back in 199 I pointed to that later in thmeasure arch watch dog committee meeting. Anyway. Vta needs to find a way to increase bus service. If seattle can do I how come vta can't.8:15 PMThank you. public speaker: hello, glen hendricks. I have seen this presentation three times. I want to clarify something said. If you look at page four, it s that vta is reducing hours. This is not. Vta was notdelivering. There is a budgeted number and actual hours of service delivered. What we are doing with this network change is we are going to to continue to provide the same maximum service hours. I think it'simportant for the public to know that vta is not reducing the service hours. I support the current proposed plan.8:16 PMThank you very much. matt mahan? Public speaker: hi, good evening, ladies and gentlemen, i'm a resident of san jose an on the board of the silicon valley commission. We spent about two hours with my neighbors and facilitated a really hands-on and collaborative meeting. I think you are doing something right. Thank you for that. I want to specifically encourage you to adopt the latest staff recommendations to preserve the 13 by converting it to the 83 which is a more optimized route to offset the 53 which is proposed to be the 64b. I support your plan.8:17 PMIf someone wants to speak bt didn't complete a card, please come forward. Public speaker: I would like tothank the vta consultants for working with us in the shelter including meeting there so we can be heard because there was only one meeting. We need more of these good solutions. Thank you for working with us and thank you for getting back to me so quickly. I wish there were better communications so we weremore advised months ago. If l shelters were year around like sunnyvale, we would have more navigation centers and shelters if we had the political will and land. We've got lots of land let's talk.8:18 PMThank you very much. is there anybody else? Are there any comments from members of the board? Mr. Rennie?Thank you. thank you for the draft. The biggest one you haven't solved is the 65. Somebody quoted it would cost us $860,000 a year to keep that. Is that correct. And instead of keeping all of the 65, you cando maybe a 62 a or 62b, something creative like that to get a few blocks where I think most of the people are feeling like there are needy transit users who are not very mobile and we might be able to get with small additional hours beyond what I know that the budget board gave you.8:19 PMThat's a good question. the 65 has two segments in downtown and it currently costs $1. 25 million. That's the marginal cost of that service. In the proposed plan we proposed to eliminate the 64 north on that route and marginal cost of that service is $830,000. As far as being creative to serve that area, you really need tget downtown because if you j serve the area, you are not really getting anywhere. This route, we struggled with this t the staff level to try to co up with something maybe to redirect the route in the area.It's a tough call because there is three parallel routes.8:20 PMIf I can follow on, it seem like, I know you are thinking about a whole route to downt but, it's probably six blocks and then they transfer to another line that might get th to downtown. I know it's no optimal, but it's got to be better than having no line at all. Wouldn't there be some solution like that?Yes, there are two routes that you can possibly connect to turn around, the problem with the turning around with the transfers is not possible. It's a good point and we tried, again, it doesn't work out.8:21 PMSo the bottom line is to p the 65, we need $830,000 moren the budget per year?Yes.Okay, thank you.Mayor liccardo?Thank you. jay, I really appreciate how collaborative you and your team have been to work with thecommunity and working out creative options. Thank you. I want to ask about the 522, decision made not to go to 15 minute service and that would be one of those trunk lines where we expect to have high frequency service; a high number of residents in that area or alo that corridor, I should say. I think in the report it says that current service is sufficient. Can you give me some insight h you distinguish between what's sufficient, if it's 20 minutes versus the higher frequency?8:22 PMYes, we went back to the ridership on the individual trips we would have increased I the area we would have increased frequency on in the time of the day and those buses aren't ful they are lightly used tripstoday. The demand doesn't warrant the extra investment at this time, right. That's something that we'll monitor going forward, but the idea of using this frequency wasn't keeping this plan of strategic service and really being rapi service and serving the longer portion. We still want to get there, but the ridership is not justified yet. Does that ar your question?Okay, thank you.Jeannie?8:23 PMThank you, chair. first, I do want to compliment staff. You know, it seems like it wasn't that long ago I wassitting in your seat when we were wrestling with this whole next network and that was a major lift and there was a lot of public outcry and we are trying to tune that and no our service hours and trying toincrease our ridership. I really want to applaud staff. I think they have a formula that worke with the next network and continuing the formula on this one was great. I also want t thank the people from the almaden area that helped to partner and redesign something. That is great because I believe the people that are out there and use the services and I will a lot more where the needs are I think that's wonderful. One of the clarifying questions on the 522. With the 522 there is 15 minute services during what hours and 20 minute during what hours?8:24 PMLet me find my paper he the 522 service is 22 minutes 6:00 a. M. To 7:00 p. M. Weekdays, weekend 7:00 a. M. To 7:00 p. M. Saturdays, 7:00 a. M. To 7:00 p. M. Sundays.That's what level? 15 minutes. Okay. I just wanted to make sure we are still in the 15 minute, just not in the early, if it's the really early hours?Right, like an hour in the morning and maybe half an hou and an hour in the evening to maybe 2.8:25 PMOkay, then I want to comment and ask a question regarding the express buses. The express bus service, in my humble opinion s the metrics that you are using in a standard route is a wrong metric but what we are kind o stuck with. As we did some these express buses and I remember very well when we launched the 185, the thing that is mind boggling to me is we don't seem, we haven't seemed to, let me see, market theexpress services, all of the express services. I'm going ba to what we were doing on the corridor. We talked to all the job centers that was the target and that was great, the right start, but that really puts t onus on the companies to try t promote with their employees and we never did try to market for the average person out there without having to hear it through secondhand through my employer, and for the for lackof a better word for lack of a better word, those are the shuttle bus for the rest of us we have a billboard on wheels and i'm not sure why we are n capitalizing on that. And particularly now, I support th plan, you know, to try to at entering into that partnership and having somebody else do this. But it seems that will be an easier lift us if we can look at trying do some things while we are still operating it. That May increase the amount of ridership. If you think about one of the maps that you show, you show the map of the li rail system, and I love that map because that map is so simpl you can see where the stops a and you can see it at a glan now imagine the side of the express bus. If it shows wher this bus is going and where y can sit there on your car on 85, for example or anyone of these, it is equivalent of a bullet train for caltrain. Howdo we get people to see through our own advertising from our buses onto themselves. From point a to point b. I would like to look at how we capitalize on this rest of this year as we try to work out a system to put in place into 0 to partner with employers. I really think there is something we can be doing there because relying on the corporation is not working for us and has n worked for us. And the other thing is quite frankly, I would even go as far as to say, downplay the vta element of this and it is really the shuttle bus for the rest of us because is all making it look like j another bus. Nuria, I had no include about the bus until you were talking about the reclining seats and the wifi and the shuttles and I don't know thedifference between our red and blue buses. Do it on one of express buses, I don't know. Do support, even though I don't get to vote, but I do supp what staff has come up.8:28 PMMadam chair, if I may. I truly appreciate board member bruins, the comments that you have shared regarding the express bus. It really is very important service that's provided especially for commuters morning and evening. As we have mentioned before, w are going to be doing a studn our express service and we'll e coming back with recommendations. We believe that when I started working here, w had a very extensive campaign around the express buses, both print media and there was also that you can pick up on late night tv and the announcements about the express buses highlighting all the qualities that it provides. But it's unfortunately we saw ridership decline on the express buses. That's one of the reasons why we did not combine the study of when we did the next net work and now when we did the new transit service plan, we did not include the express because it's such an important service that we needed to provide the service and it's such an important stand because it was driving commuters to large employer centers and set up a market campaign to brand it. If you can just wor with us as we go through thisprocess, get this new transit service plan adopted, get it ready for the grand opening and then we'll get it started.8:30 PMDirector carr?Thank you for the work and we've had a couple presentations on this. We appreciate it. I want to point out the route and 42, which are points that e heard a lot about. Thank you for that. I want to turn to south county for a moment and thank you for finding service for 68. It's te only service to the county on the south. That is one option that the residents have on the day and on the weekends as we. I want to check on some of the things that director bruins talked about on express buses. First I thought we were findingways to sort of delay what w think might be the inevitable about express buses. By sayin that we are going to be working on these public private partnerships which is the great way to go on the express buses, but what if that doesn't come together. Tonight we would be adopting a plan to do away with express buses.That's my understanding, but if that doesn't come together talked about, are we looking at optio if the public private partnership doesn't come together that we can save some of these express routes?8:31 PMYes. the partnership progr, you are right. This is going t be difficult because essentially what we need to do is safe h the cost for the vta's total express program. We plan oncoming back total board with options working with express partners working with what financial parameters May work and what May not work.In the hypothetical situation where something couldn't be worked out, we would come back to th board and present the board w what the options are going forward here. Do we somehow find more money or do we eliminate routes or what. We would come back to the board and let the decision be made here and the policy.8:32 PMSo the action don't does automatically cut those routes?Correct. it does not. I just assumes that in 2020, the budget, the fy, the next bu that you will be adopting next month assumes half of the resources saved. It assumes kind of the end game here.8:33 PMOkay, we have a lot to wo on and there are concerns and I get that we have to do that and that's the best direction we have right now. I want to turn really quick to route 17 and gilroy. I don't want to specifically be pulling out routes tonight as we are looking at a whole plan, but going to pull this one out. I asked a question in administration and finance and you've addressed here as well as we think about how we continue to evaluate these plans and lo at these things. What are sort of the ways that we look at social service agencies we heard tonight are no longer going to be served by any public transportation in gilroy and they are not in areas that have sidewalks and ways to access those areas. What are ways to evaluate to move route 45 to move and get to those social services.8:34 PMIt's a ridership that provides service to gilroy. I have been in contact there and that over sees five in thecounty. It's difficult, a very difficult place for us to serv which is a dead-end street and we have to take the bus around in the parking lot to turn it around. Over the years we've tried everything we can to increase ridership on the route. It's actually, route 17 is the lowest performing route on the entire system, the localnetwork. We tried different routing alignments and even a free fare month trying to work with local agencies to get folks to come out and nothing has bugged on ridership. It's three riders per trip. So you can imagine a bus carrying three riders the whole way. It's a very low ridership. What we have been doing is talking to morgan hill that this is a low ridership. There is a perhaps a pot of money to come up with abetter solution to better fit for an allocation like that. We don't want to discontinue service to such an important location, but it's just a terrible place to serve. It's hard to serve.8:35 PMThank you very much.Director peralez?Thank you very much chair and to staff as well. I did a lotf behind-the-scenes and after staff adopted theirrecommendation, I was able to put down my advocacy package saved my talking points. I did ride between 1-4 to get an understanding of the passengers. I thought it was important if was going to try to advocate t try to save 1 and 4 then I should know who is riding that myself and I thought that might be a hard group for us to communicate and actually receiving feedback. So I want to as well see how we had done and I will say that the numb one source of information actually was media. It was ne media that did individuals on 22 and 124 got their info from. There were handful that got it from vta but a lot of it wasword of mouth. I appreciated being able to hear from those individuals, and I really do appreciate staff selecting to preserve this route between that timeframe. So I will rest my comments on that. I do want toadvocate a little bit as well for the 65 and I think I understand the dilemma. It's dollars and cents in regards to if we want to be able to preserve it. I appreciate director rennie and some creative ideas. We saw that wh these other routes and we brought that up in committee as well as if there is an opportunity. I wanted to see if we go down this route and then we see , let's say we resolve some of or financial woes and we have the opportunity which is to grow or routes, would there be opportunities maybe sooner thanlater moving forward to look a routes like this perhaps 65 and how soon that would be to restore a route like that?8:38 PMIt sounds like a budget question and when resources might become available. To say resources of $830,000 would become available. We would consider options. It could b route with 2-4 options an hou it would be up to the board a the resources become available.You mentioned every hour, we had projecting around 16. What was the change there from the estimate of 16 riders per how this 12. 3 was the latest.I'm not familiar with where the 16 came from. That's not something that I have seen.8:39 PMI will try to pull up th and get it to you. I'm no necessarily going to argue that claim right now because that is not necessarily going to generate the dollars that we need, but I do think there is an opportunity for are this rout and as staff has pointed out, this is one of the top items that we heard back from the community.Cutting routes, any route is not something that i'm interested in continuing as a habit, and really do hope as w move forward, we are continuing down our process of looking at our system as a whole, looking at increasing ridership and also increasing routes which I know is an interest of my board colleagues. Thank you.8:40 PMVice-chair chavez?Thank you, jay, and jim, thank you. That's all right. I will let them talk amongst themselves for a minute. I want to make a couple changes. A couple things for my colleagues to consider. Today w are taking action on something that will take effect when bar begins. Here is the two though that I have. One, as it rel to 17, I love your idea and I think it's really smart to look at the last mile strategy. I think the other thing that would be of value, is I neglected t look at who owns the building that ssa is in right now. T reason i'm interested in that is that it occurs to me that it maybe in a place that will never be easy to serve and it May me more sense for us to move it r access and not just for buse but for all kinds of access. Depending on, we've been really trying to do our best to sta to stop running properties and owning that. I don't knowwhether the county has started to think about that there is a bunch of issues that are impacted by locations. So I will ask that you include social services and I will be responsible for working with the county on this issue. I wanted to talk about 65 f minute. I'm concerned about the whole length of 65, the 1. 2enchilada. We are trying to make funding available for our new nutrition program and looking at thatexpansion. I think it's happening as part of our budget this go around. What I don' know is -- you know, so t gets it into a tricky place because, the highest -- I don't know what all the passenger profile is and I didn't ride it like raul on the 22, but the 6. Given that we are at 12. 5 an are trying to get to that 15 would like an opportunity for us for some period of time to work with the partners that are along that alignment and try to see we can't move that up. Now, l me just say to my colleagues what about the $1. 2 million.What I would like us to do is look at the end fund balance that we have this year. It sounds like it was small, like million dollars, and apply that and use that strategy that y are using for the express buses.Which is let's take a crack as to whether or not we can increase ridership and then frankly have a discussion with the board as it relates to the priority of a number of decisions which i'm going to bethinking we are going to be needed to be making. What i'm learning about bart and the discussion earlier and what we are hearing from people about light rail is a lot of wha are doing is going to be staying in flux because we don't know what we don't know yet and you are doing your very best to anticipate but we don't know yet. Even with the route in alma den valley, I think it's creative but we are going to do our best to make it work. W does that mean concretely? Is to adopt the action today and work on 17, the first and las mile and also talk to the co about the placement of those services. The second is that we have another conversation with the county about the nutrition center there, what kinds of impacts to the services we aregoing to provide at north side in general and worth talking to the city because it's a city community center to get us to that strategy of 12. 5 to a higher ratio and to look at the money to looking at a small piece of that small end fund balance where you May come back to say it's still not possible for you to do but I don't want to let go of that, because the are a number of people who cho that alignment because they aredisabled and that gives them access to the world, at least our world. Those are my thoughts.8:45 PMMadam chair, as the board members consider voting on this new transit service plan, one thing we didn't talk about as with the next network was to come up with a performance evaluation of the route so we can come back with a report because i'm hearing that we look at this from a dollar perspective but not from a ri ship activity perspective. That's something I wanted to offer that I think it's important because if we had al the money in the world, would we be operating on lines that were below the service standard tha we have adopted, and that is te conversation that has not taken place but that should because I think it's important. We would be at some point in a position where we could bring everything back, but is that the right thing to do?8:46 PMMayor liccardo?I would like to ask supervisor chavez to clarify what exactly would we be doing with 65?I think i'm still formulating the idea in my mind which is why I maybe sounding a little bit unclear. What my objective would be to simply ask for the end of the 65 alignment to be slow walked long enough for us tohave a conversation with both the county and the city about the uses at north side because think that is actually a big receiver of ridership as no. 1 no. 2, I would really like to engage the riders of 65 todetermine whether or not we really can increase the ridership. No. 3, I think the point, rob, that you raisedearlier about does it make sense for 65 to end somewhere other than downtown in north side. Is that large because really I want to see whether or not we can increase ridership.8:47 PMSo there would be some check in with the board. Say the boa opens in november. Would ther be some check in with the board before that?I would really like to get your best thinking on it. I just talked to sal now and they are thinking about timing.8:48 PMMadam chair, if I may, w work with the community and do some marketing along the route over the summer. I'm thinking out loud as well and maybe come back at the end of this clear and with a report to the board to see if the ridership has changed. The ridership has fallen and now 11 boardings per hou hour.It's running against us.I really appreciate glen coming forward and really emphasizing the increase in the total service, if not a decree in a strategic way, because I think our own conversation about it is going to impact whether not people should be thinking about even taking a bus. A lot of our discussion has been gloom and doom lately and I think th is a real significant problem in parts of the community.8:49 PMSo, I will make a couple comments on that. Like we've all heard many times from the appeals from the folks that ride the 65 bus, and I know paratransit, our access program is heavily subsidized and those that walk and should we perh be suggesting to some of tho folks to be evaluated for paratransit paratransit.The level of their disability and maybe they will be able to benefit from access I think we need to partner mwith some of the folks particularly the students going to san jose state. We have scoop and waze. Maybe we can come u with some kind of incentive program for the students maybe that might be a faster easierway for them to get to san jos state if we can find someone f them to carpool with. I look a the cost and i'm a little hesitant about we kind of barely pieced this budget together and i'm very hesitant to takewhatever that tiny bit of cushion on. If we can say t the team can boost their ridership by the end of the yrbut I don't want to go too far because i'm nervous about how tight the budget is. So, I looking at more alternative ways to look at more solutions providers for transportation and we might need to really belooking at more aggressively at other ways to do that. And certainly we want to make sure that people are getting to their medical appointment and making sure that people are getting to their school and their work all of those important things and to figure out how to do th for the most people. So and oe of my concerns as I listened t talk about the 51 bus where goes by cupertino high and when I saw the little picture of t little square because I know we have made some accommodations for the students in palo altowhere they are riding. Is it a possibility for one or two routes in the morning and afternoon to do what they were proposing to divert the bus so that it would go by cupertino middle school and homestead highschool.8:52 PMWe worked with the school district and city staff and we looked at all the options we could come up with to service the schools. If we only servi in the a. M. And p. M. . We wou have to take several trips in the afternoon where we would have to move 1. 5 miles away. It's a ridership killer, as you imagine the seniors trying to get somewhere now the route doesn't come to their place between 1-4 p. M. . That's why staff didn't make those deviations. It confuses the route.8:53 PMOkay. did you have something?Just some closing questions.Looking at the route, base on the boardings on and off, this goes really far northeast to my neighborhood heading into 13 th. To you see much ridership beyond the downtown boardings on north side and the 2 and the 56?No, the north side center I the only cluster of boarding I downtown. San jose state and diridon and some areas south I the camden area.8:54 PMCity college? okay, it May in fact be a route that is serving more area that it c efficiently serve.Yes, the next network pl the route today has three buses on it. That's why it cost 1 and with the north spot, it would bring it to 2. It woul still cost $830,000 for the twGot it. thanks.Director mcallister?I would like to jump in on that route 51. Jay and I hav had a few conversations and I asked for information on that one and you keep relating to i. I hope that we can continue discussion on it because cupertino middle school, is something that we hope to because they don't have opti to riding around. And thereseems to be some wiggle room in the morning. Maybe you are opening to the conversation that we don't need to have continuous to the high school, but if we tie it to one, we can get a single route and I appreciate you getting that route open. There is also an elementary school. If you go west on east and homestead, and you have the middle school and the elementary school. I think if we can get the safe routes to school, I think we can find a compromise in there. And generally, jay, can we s continue the conversation on that one? okay, thanks. I like the direction of staff and I recommend doing that, but I would also like that we work with cindy as she had some gt ideas and how to incorporate ideas. Those are some of my comments.8:56 PMWere there any board members wishing to make a comment? I would like to thank the staff and the community has been incredibly engaged and I appreciate the time that so my of you have come to community meetings and come to these b meetings. We hear that the transportation service is veryimportant to you and somehow we've got to find a way to m it work for everybody within te financial parameters and some of the other resources that are a little bit more constrained than we would like. So, while those tough decisions need to continue to be made. Also, there was some discussion about the 22 bus, and the issue about whether it was going to run all night. I continue to that the folks that are using,the members of our community using that bus as their even shelter, they deserve something better than that. And I know there is particularly, supervisor chavez is working very diligently and Mr. Liccardo, many members of our community who are working to get that housing built. I think vt wants to continue to figure out how we can help in that situation. What is the appropriate role for us to pla we are not the housing solutions provider, but we want to be sensitive to the needs of all f our customers and the residents of this community. So we are going to, within a couple of board members and working with staff, kind of work on what is an appropriate framework for what we possibly can do acknowledging that we are not, you know, we are not going to be the agency that novice can sol the homeless problem but havingcompassion and looking at those resources and at the board meeting come back with a framework or a policy for the board to consider as to what is the role of the vta as a me of the larger community, as welook at some of these issues that you don't -- there is a l of challenges that many of the members of our community have, they aren't separate with how they interact with transportation.8:58 PMI think that's such a great point. I will just let staff know that the county and the water district are pullingtogether convening to have that discussion, and not unlike vta, the water district ends up beg not on purpose partner with u and perhaps we should just invite vta to participate in that. Because it will be aproblem solving session with them and with other folks that are most impacted by the # this.8:59 PMThat has been a very fruitful discussion. Is there a motion that somebody would like to make? What's that?I tried one. I can try I again.Yeah. it was kind of an on.I would move staff's recommendation with three caveats and those would be areas to discuss. Let me just deviate before I make the recommendation to say the following. With the issues that the board raisedwould be comfortable for coming back to committee for further refinement before the end of the year. As I make this motion, I don't mean to scare you to death. So it would be to take staff's recommendations to three continued bodies of work. One would be to look at route 17, for the first last mile, first and last mile resources and to work with the county to consider whether or not there is a better location for the ssa work that's being done there. Second, would be to work with the city and the county on the city of san jose and santa clara on route 65 and with the peopl who are along route 65, to determine two things. One,would be to analyze whether or not cutting it off in downt makes it a more productive route as mayor liccardo outlined. The other would be to work wit the folks along route 65 to se whether or not there is a way to increase ridership, and that still would come back for an evaluation because as our ceo nuria said that will need to come back to committee and relative to the middle school that doesn't have the samechallenges that the high school does. With staff as recommendations to those being further investigated to staff recommendation to give to the board another point in time to make the decision.Is there a second?I will second, but I have a question. So do you want to have a civic timeframe or leave it open to staff to come back.We are throwing this to staff and want to give them an opportunity to say. These May need a different timeline and some May not be feasible and I want to leave it to staff's discretion.Madam chair, as we have indicated before, the changes go in effect in the bart service opens. So we have about six months where we can actually have a meeting with the county. We have had extensive meetingswith the community. We hope to get new information that we ar not able to glean through those meetings and come back with t our findings are and i'm not sure if we can come back with recommendations.Findings are fine.And our ridership continues to decrease.Member bruins?I i'm trying to figure ou how to phrase this because i'm a city council member of los altos. I support that the sf does not look at reviewing the routes. And they have done so much work and working off the high school, does not make this problem more solvable as you look at the geographic considerations around thecupertino middle school. My staff honestly think and they think this is worth yet another look, i'm having a hard time going down another rabbit hole. I know the council did authorize our mayor to send anotherletter. But I think staff has done a dynamite job in looking at this and offering suggestions.Chair? if I can comment. n your motion you talked about in the last mile 17 that youd about maybe 65, but you didn' mention it. Can you assume in your motion that a solution could be last mile. I think it's a small area of people that are trying to connect. Your motion had mentioned cutting it off at downtown which is more efficient. But it's already being cutoff in downtown.And the other one about scp is another one. I want them to use all of their smarticles.Member carr?Thank you for including the services in gilroy. I appreciate that. I wonder if you would b willing to add something about express but network because the staff recommendation is to transition to the partnershipmodel. I would like to open th up a little bit more. We are doing the study anyway and evaluating what our options are and not put all into the ba of a third party or third party model. I would like for that case it doesn't come together. I would like to open the motion to say we are going to continue to evaluate the express bus service through the study we have already authorized to see if there are other options thatmight be available to us.I'm not familiar, what study are you referring to?The express buses were not included in this new transit service plan. What we had suggested to the board was th we would do a separate study express buses.Okay.When we do that buses, we' be happy to come back with recommendations, but I don't see how including a reference to the express buses in the plan that does not have express buses gs us there.I think what happened is the staff presented it so as part of this discussing, you presented it in your slides and I think what happens is we are looking at the network as a whole instead of the one piece of another.Did you do that just for information purposes tonight?Well, i'm struggling with this a little bit, I can tell. In the draft plan, we assumed 19,000 annual hours in savings from the express program. We identified this route would go from 7 trips to 5 and this roe would go away. We thought, that's a little premature to just jump the gun to say what specific ways we would achieve that 19,000 hours of savings what we are proposing here is a plan that still requires us to achieve those 19,000 hours of savings, but at some later point in early 2020 that we have this summer to do it right to identify what that new progra looks like right. It's going t be difficult and still saving 19,000 hours of service and that's not a small amount but don't know what that looks like yet.I think that reaffirms what member carr has said. I thin he is saying that we are not looking at one solution but my strategies and one strategy is a third party partner, but that's not the only strategy you are going to consider. What he's asked me to do is codify that in a motion, is that accurate?Yes, another strategy with mtc which has a nice program that's part of it.That's an easy thing to include. That makes sense.Thank you.Member mcallister?With the tweaks that we are going to do, would they be ab to look at it as break eve net zero. The whole goal would be looking at cost, would that be as part of that study too?Yes, that's part of the sty on the express buses, that's exactly what we are going to be looking at.On the 65 and the 51 too. the overall goal is to maintain them. I don't want to get away from the buses and if we can tweak it but keep it in a balance.We are going to have to come back with the financial impacts of these different alternatives.Thank you.Absolutely.Thank you.Any other comments? okay. so, are we all clear on what this motion is? With these little tweaks, we are going to get some findings and some or information before a final decision is potentially made on the tweak areas. Director carr?On just those items. we a approving everything else.You are approving everything else. All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? okay, great. thank you very much, everybody. 8. 3. Information item - review and receive the February 2019 future of transportation workshop next steps. 9. Other this item was deferred from thelast board workshop meeting.Thank you, madam chair and good evening board members. This is a brief explanation and we'll talk about the next s and what we have been working on. By way of review, this is a critical time for transportationworldwide and vta and rapid changes and new challenges. These are all things that are currently in play when we consider what we are doing with our programs. Santa clara county valley transportation authorityauthority had a workshop and at that workshop we highlighted the overview of the transportation trends and in the industry and talked about threatsAnand traditional establishments and competition like shuttles and lyft and uber and personal mobility devices like electric scooters and the availability of relatively low cost of automobiles. And the rapid rate of innovati and technology and how such circumstances are providing new opportunity for us to innovatetransportation not just in one area but in all areas and a socioeconomic sectors of this society. We also talked about in context the threats of public agencies and how they respond to rapid innovation and adoption. Some threats can be turned to opportunities or failures if we don't act on these things. These are workshops in the four topical areas that would be impacted by new technology. Vehicle transit service models and workforce and infrastructure. One underlying theme throughout this presentation was to remain relevant and vibrant vta must take advantage of these opportunities and to our businesses practices.A little bit about the board member discussion. After the presentation, board members participated in a frank discussion about vta's transportation. Ideas discussed including delivering transportation services in this current age of rapidly changing and evolving and disruptive technologies and promoting a cultural innovation of vta and allow staff and board members take strategic risks and strategic points and to address technology and transportation and to make this the proper culture of vta. We also need under our markets, both the current market that we are in and under better future mark to craft programs and services to take advantage of those markets. And lastly, it was discussed that vta must be a nimble ag and discuss resources for innovation to respond and take advantage of all the new opportunities all around us.Some more ideas discussed. The agency needs to consider new uses for existing and future right-of-way. I think we talked about that being the public right-of-way not just vta right-of-ways but all right-of-ways for the currency of the future. We are facing a lot of competition from othe public sectors and the right-of-ways will be what public agencies will retain I the coming decades. We should also explore ways tocommercialize vta's access for example forming partnerships and the signals and the role that vta can serve in possible partnerships and managing the as a systems integrator. And talked about process andpotential changes in the workforce. Overall, the board members acknowledged that there needs to be change and radical change and to address at the involving needs as technology is rapidly changing around us. Risks and inaction was also discussed and threat is high determine the volatility of the agency. What's next? In addressing these changes, this is happening with the reorganization of the agency. This group is charged with the vta program and the leadership of this office will establish internal working groups that are already on the way. One for e of the focus areas for service vehicles and transit service and workforce.Each working group will produce a work plan to determine how innovations and transportation agencies willconsider each focus and work with other agencies and other partners to mobilize plans for the agencies. As we develop these work plans, we will be giving particular focus to opportunity for vta as a new role as a service systems integrate or as you think ab all the services out there an the new opportunity you canvisualize new roles for vta especially with the diverse nature for vta as responsibilities to have a role in this integration. And outline points and areas o focus. And information from this process will be brought to vta's committees and the office of innovation staff as well as other staff members will make regular reports to the capital program committee as well as update the board of directors on a regular basis. Concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.Are there any comments from the board? Okay, we have a public comment. Andrew boone would like to speak to thi item. Public speaker: good evening, thank you to the board of directors. I was not able toattend this future transportation workshop but I was interested in the topic. I think thinking about what new technologies are developing, will exist in the future and what changes to our demographics are happening is very important and I appreciate this workshop happening and you being informed on it.However, what I would like to see when I think about the future of transportation in this county what I want is to have a bus system that I can use. I want to have adequately funded bus service. No matter how well we plan for future technologies, it isn't going to be very effective if we still insist on spending $300 million per year on a bus system. A transit system, we should be thinking about the world class transit system and the funds we have to pay for it and we ha the highway measure b program. Thank you.Thank you, is there any other member of the public that would like to speak on this item? Okay. I'm not seeing anybody. Were there any other comments from board members? Okay, t you very much. I think it'sgreat that the work groups ar starting and I would be happy o get more information. This is the beginning of an on going perpetual process of reinvention. So I look forward to hearing more from staff ver soon.Thank you.Thank you again. so that takes us to item 9. First is 9. 1. General manager's report.Thank you very much madam chair. Good evening. I'm going to begin with a report with get on board which is an event that would in the community where we are rallying with vta to the community to get on board. Th was started by the transportation association and while we were rallying here I the area so were other areas across the country. We saw an increase of 15% on ridership. Albeit it was a free fare day and a beautiful day. We did get a large turnout of people a most of the effort was the result of our partnership with the local businesses that stepped up and pledged to get between 5-20% of their employe to ride public transportation o use other means other than single driving to work or to school. So that paid dividends. We were really privileged to have with us, our board chair who kicked off the event and were joined by the members of the business community. We h lockhee lockheed martin, san jose university and silicon valley organization and community partners. In addition to that, we had over several dozen children in attends an accompanied by their parents who happened to be employees of vta because it was bring your children to work as well. And the photo is pictures of the future riders of the public transportation system. We had coverage from the media. Our plan is to continue the drumbeat. It not just about getting on board, it's about staying on board. This is important. We have a large number of companies and publicagencies that have bought into a smart pass norm as the eco pass program, but employees are not using it to ride public transportation. They are still driving. I am going to impress upon our board members who are part of a smart pass program rally along with us and cont they can # -- echo of how important it is to move this rally around. We want to accelerate our services. We learned the hard way that one f the most valuable and import things to the individuals is when they are making decisions and their time and to get wh they wanting to # to go will get them there. I would like to thank the marketing affairs for putting together the event and for those of you in the audien that participated and took advantage of the free rides o that day and hope that you continue riding vta. Now, onto vta's bring your chd to workplace. It took place last thursday. We had over 50 kids participating in activities that were put together by a group of volunteers and they visited the bus yards and saw how the buses were washed. Tha was the highlight. Our safety officers also put on a presentation with their k9 and bomb squads. Later the kids got to enjoy in the park and the officers were having great fun. I guess we'll do that next year. The other thing we will beholding a meeting for the budget. The dates and locations of the public meetings are on your screen. We will also h presentations available on our website in the event that members of the community are not able to attend these public meetings. The board is scheduled to can are the adoption of the budget at the June 6th meeting, and I approved, this budget will be implemented for a two year period beginning July 1, 2019. Moving along, we have another anticipated tradition which is a celebration of our bike to workday.May is national bike month and we will be celebrating bike to workday, Thursday May as in past years, we are goin to be partnering with the city of san jose on the bicycle coalition on the movers and shakers and board efficiency and many others from the community from downtown san jose up th guadalupe trail to the river oaks headquarters. The event I going to be kicked off at the martin luther king jr. Library on fernando street in downtown san jose. Now, let me share with you dat on our operational performancespecifically ridership. Up on the screen are the preliminary ridership results for the month of april. We are seeing declines in bus and rail ridership at 2. 9%. Although these numbers are preliminary, they do incluthat 50% spike that we observ last thursday. So it's something worth taking note. We are looking forward to the full implementation of the new transit service plan, but as you see we are banking on in a plan to create that increase in ridership which is projected by our planning staff to be somewhere between 7-9%.We'll be monitoring the implementation. Now I would like to bring u lieutenant cardsa.We had 1200 self initiated events and 500 dispatched events. Of those events we logged 108 incident reports. The majority of those were misdemeanors. We had three serious felony arrest for fbi crimes. 70 arrest were drug an alcohol related. About half o them were light rail related cases.Okay, thank you very much, lieutenant. Are there any questions for me and my repor or the lieutenant?Then, madam chair, I will move on to item 9. 1 arch. Just to draw your attention, we are not going toprovide the brief report as I had intended but we will have the full report in the reading folder an in the public binder for your review. Item 9. 1 b is an update on the silicon valley rapid transit program 9. 1. B.Information item - receive silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. 9. 2. Chairperson's report. For the phase 1 project.Thank you, i'm going to have jorge martinez deliver the report tonight. Thank you.Good evening, board, i'm gd the presentation was on so lon that it was in my memory for e bart service.We have made great progress. We have worked out our challenges and working closely with bart and looking forward to working more close with them as we handoff after testing. Where we are basically is we a completing the work. We are doing the functional testing as you have seen. The work looks complete, but the control systems are still in the process of being tested for the full integration to make sure they are safe to operate. There are crews out there working evenin and weekends and we are trying to provide the documentation to certify the system and again to be able to support the next phase which is bart's duediligence in operations. That work is progressing quite well, but we do have challenges on a daily basis.One of the ones that are currently giving us problems is the rail intrusion detection system which wereported last month that we managed to overcome with the most difficulties and it continues to have ghost in the system and we continue to address it. Right now we don think it's going to be a sho stopper but continues to be a day to day challenge. The remainder of the program fr us is in the next month we aregoing to be working on resolvi some of the minor discrepancies in the test and we move to th bart system and addressing the challenges that seem to come on a day to day basis. The next phase of this is what we are in the process of doing. We are going to hand this to bart who is going to be taking the lead and doing their due diligent testing for robustness and moving into the operatio phase and we'll be taking a p back and still being their delivery partner and working shoulder to shoulder with them, but this will be their program going forward for the next six months. The critical work is this transitional period. We aremorphing from controlling access of the project from the local control center. The next month we'll be very busy and cutti over the existing functioning system to the entire operational center which is a complexprocess which we are doing jointly with the bart folks. W will be preparing detailed work plans over the course of the next week to effect that and make sure that all goes smoothly. And I will explain on my last slide is fully supporting completion of the project by the end of the year this slide here is basically what we showed last month b have eliminated a couple things which might have caused some confusion. We are still targeting to complete a little bit by the end of the year. Biggest threat going forward is the unknowns.We have a good handle on the system that proves to be robust and there are a couple things we are looking at on a daily basis, but we are fully confident that we have a system that will go through the next three months of due diligent testing and we'll be able to go into the three mont of the operations and we'll be completing the project before the end of the yearmentThank you very much, jorge. are there any questions for either jorge or dennis regarding the bart project?Yes?I drew the short straw. I going to ask what's a ghost the intrusion system inLet me tell you about t railroad intrusion system. First of all, it is a one-of-a-kind because of the nature of the intrusion system. Many across the country have a rail intrusion system. We were mandated to have one here because of the proximity of the heavy rail. What's required I developing a unique one-of-a-kind and because of the uniqueness of this system, when these instruments which are very delicate when installed, we have to be eliminating all the things that are affecting them. When we talk about ghosting is some latent signals that are in the background giving false signals. Those are the ghost. We are constantly putting in buffers with electronic components.To ensure people aren't getting on.This is to indicate the intrusion to joining rail. If something were to fall off a car or it derailed, this systemdesigned automatically to send a signal to stop the trains. There is no people involved in this. That's what we have to make function.This system is required I those areas where we are operating in close proximity to union pacific's freightoperation. It's really just t detect an intrusion from that operation into the bart operating envelope. In thiscase, it's a fence alarm to detect motion should something like that occur.So for example in a railroad, and we are moovlg around, I assume the system would detect that person, right?The particular sensors that we are installing on the primary basis depends on the fencing security primarily. There is a back up system of cameras thas been installed, but they don't generate an electronic signal in and of itself.The camera working in this area is significant. These are zoom cameras and have significant coverage in the dark.Any other questions?I have two cards for people that want to speak on.We have two members. first will be bradley and --Keeping once again, eugene bradley. I'm surprised nobody mentioned the buses the accide and fortunately no one was injured. This is what I have seen about this accident is h the drivers are trained from the day they enter the class to t day they are driving the buses and such that the drive has basically speed up to make-up time and especially might not account for the traffic they have to fight. So I will provide something in writing a how vta affects the buses. Seems the buses the way they a scheduled, they May not be that realistic. Thank you. Public speaker: I just want to make two quick points. I would like to thank the staff for t memo in the packet. Secondly, while I trust jorge and dennis about their prediction, just incase something happens and just in case the contingency doesn't turnout to be enough, I would suggest having a communicating strategy for any potential delays that takes us past december. That's all.One more question?Just a follow-up. you said were starting in december, if you gave it a percentage and t in 100% in december, 80 or and the other from the bart side.Providing a forecast is inherently predicting the future, there are some things that are unknowable, butgenerally speaking, I can tell you the project is complete. Were finishing the last stages of the technical aspect of it. It was mobilized in a very meaningful way in handing facilities of the documentation of the equipment and into the operations of bart personnel and bart has included in this effort and resources and implementation among staff including the bart staff is a conventions of nervousness, excitement,exhaustion and more of a commitment to getting the project done by the end of th year. That generally speaking with the work remaining including the work done by bart is provided with more than adequate time to complete the project before the end of the year. This is what all of the project team including the bart personnel are committed to achieving. Although there is hiccups everyday, there is adequate time and we continue t have oversight by the partners and the transit administration and as late as yesterday thconcurred our assessment by being completed by the end of the year. Beyond that, if the is something we don't know and barring any unforeseeable event. We are expected to be complete by the end of the year.Holidays play a part in the calendar. Do those include holidays.As far as the staff, there are no holidays coming up. I assure you a lot of people have sacrificed a lot of family time to get this far. I will only add to what dennis said, we are no entering the fishing stages of the project. The projects that are now completed and what you see it as a glass. There is ls of things that we can do, there is of course the minimum number of things that we can do to ensure the system is safe.Basically the amount of water e put in that glass is up to we feel there is adequate time to get to the end game late december.I want to add one more th to characterize the months ahead. The unique aspect of completing the project is the bart management and being completed by a different agency is a little bit of a challenge for all of us.It's not qu we are finished, now it your turn. The nature of what we are planning over the next months I a change of control. As it stands now, vta is responsible for the facilities, we have control of the facilities. Weregulate the access of those facilities by our contracts and our experts, as we go through this process in the next six weeks, this is responsibility is transferred to bart. But we our organization to reforming itself to continue to provide all the necessary resources from our contractors and our expert to support bart's activities and that will continue until we put it into revenue service and to some extent even after revenueservice.I would like to add, madam chair, that a project of this magnitude, I don't think anyone should be surprise that we have a long list of items so there will still be out there contractors and personnel, the months beyond opening service. If there are no further questions?I will go into the chair's report. I'm just going to mention that the working group on the kind of board engageme and enhancement that member mcallister has graciously agreed to chair is going to have itsfirst meeting May 29 at 10:00 a. M. And the other members of the committee are chappie jones, bruins and hendricks and myself. We are going to start t put together a work plan so we meet, we'll be coming back o the board with some recommendations. That's all I wanted to say this evening. The next 9. 3 items of concern and referral to administration. The comments regarding the light rail options is in your readinfolder and available for the members of the public. Member liccardo, did you want to say anything?It's self explanatory. okay, 9. 4. Are the minutes, y are in the packet and I think omar chatty wanted to tack about the caltrain. Public speaker: two issues. The caltrain deaths that I have talked to you about and i'm hoping the state senator will talk about the feasibility study between santa clara and millbrae and let's see the value. Caltrain carries 65,000. The second thing and with the high-speed rail being how we talked about connecting merced and not going to -- finally please put in the wish list for the infrastructure money for the eir.Thank you very much. roland, did you wish to speak on th item?Very briefly. on the previous item, the meeting on the 29, i'm not seeing it on e calendar.Thank you.So are there any announcements from any of the board members? Okay, that mea we are about to go back to go into closed session to finish item 2. D, we have a few speake on this item before we go b into closed session. First on is ron and then john courtney. Public speaker: my name is rod. I know you are going to be going into negotiations. We have been negotiating for over seven months now and there doesn't seem to be an end in sight. There were issues brought up on both sides and being wages. E last few months have been a waste of resources and our membership is getting frustrated. While forming an adhoc committee to discuss the deficit and came up with recommendations and they are scaring employees into retirement already. Not hired single operator since September and they have blamed the employees for the loss of service. Membership has come to a point where most are disappointed, disgusted and evenangry by seeing how under valued they are by this administration. Everyday they work over 50 hs a day to make the coverage. Team has explored all options including mediation which vta also insisted on and declares we are at an impasse. We are here again coming to the board because we are all out o options.Thank you. john courtney?Public speaker: I appreciate you giving roger a little bit more time. I think it important to say what he has to say. I just want to talk about a few things what you gene mentioned about the accident. It's like what wer dealing with. You are creating an unsafe condition for our operators. Vta has the be trained in the country and we have the safest drivers. I want you to look at this different with the funding that hasdropped under the table. Our union did an audit of vta finances a while back. And o of the things that came out of the audit was that pure agency in -- peers in vta, in california, vta is the highest, the most conservative. On average between 10-12 is a good number to have your reserves at. You find ways to move that and move it down to other places. We feel it's importan to do that now. We have bart and a lot of things coming int the horizon and we need to get this labor dispute settled. We are almost there. The other thing to look at the pension contribution. I have to explain it to you. So people who were hired after2016, automatically pay 6%. It's determined by the law. We have no control over that. Pre2016 people, are classic employees and we do the contribution. Do the numbers for the union. Over the last three years we have retired between 85 and 1 members and those were classic employees and those were replaced by what? Pep era people who pay 6%. Through attrition, every person working under vta's umbrella pay 6%.There is no point in killing your work force now. We are asking you to look compensation differently. You are going to get what you need. In 10 ye you will have 1500 more. You are almost there. You are going toget it and it's a good thing. As it stands right now, there is no sense in killing our workforce to get there. I just want to thank you. In particular, I want to thank you for riding that 22. Everybody have a good evening.