chair hendricks: good evening everyone. I would like to call this meeting of the board of directors to order. Annette is joining us now. She's a new member. Please do roll call.5:32 PMBurt, carrasco, chavez, davis, gilmore, jimenez, liccardo, montana know, paul; peralez, here, rennie, here,simitian; I see him. Member simitian, here. Thank you, knew jones, present, chair hendricks? attending.We have a quorum. thank you.We are going to move on to orders of the day. Before I ask for any changes from my colleagues and staff, I have some news I need to share. Last Tuesday the board was informed that we lost a vta family member.John finister. He passed away from covid-19. He was known as a hard worker and well respected by his colleagues and he was a man who cared deeply about his wife and children and grandchildren. Ourthoughts go out to his family and tonight's meeting will be adjourned in the memory of jon finister and our sincere condolences. It's actually hard to move on with the rest of the meeting after going through that.I'm going to orders of the day. Staff, do we want to move 7. 4 from the consent calendar?5:34 PMI don't think there is any other changes.I would like to move 7.4 to the consent calendar. Would my colleagues like to second that?I will move that we move the 7. 4 to the consent calendar.5:35 PMThank you. I second that.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes. thank you.All right. thank you. we are moving on to awards and commendations now. We have employees of the yearfor 2020. Our first honoree.Recognize kermit cuff, transit service development supervisor in the service planning department, and william hawthorne, light rail signal maintainer in the way, power, and signal department, as the employees of the year for 2020. He demonstrates leadership skills by educating and mentoring his colleagues on theteam and they consider his knowledge and contributions important to this agency. I believe he is with us, is that correct?5:36 PMYes, chair. 3I have so many things, I can't see him. Let's just give kermit a big let's give a round of applause. [ applause ] he can tell you where every tree is near each bus top. Next is Mr. William hawthorne. and operations and maintain - category. He has worked as a light rail signal manager and has worked with his colleagues and has served as an exemplary employee. Through his attention and detail, he had helped vtawith costly improvements. William is a great professional.5:37 PMChair, this is elaine. william, if you are here, please unmute yourself. I don't see him. I'm sorry. Okay, let's give william let's give a round of applause. [ applause ] I would like all of my colleagues to turn your videos on now so we can take a group video photon zoom.5:38 PMI will count off everyone. all right. Counting off, 1, 2, 3.5:39 PMAll right. got it.Chair hendricks: congratulations to all the employees for the year 220. You are the ones that are actuallymaking everything happen on a day-to-day basis. Thank you for all of your hard work day in and day out to provide our service. Next is reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. The amount of time allocated for thissection of the agenda May vary at the chairperson's discretion depending on the number of speakers and length of the agenda. The law does not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under special circumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing. For those with customer service concerns, you are encouraged to contact the service department. We are ready now to start our public comment. Theodorea, you are managing the public comment period?5:40 PMThat's correct, Mr. Hendricks. First is alex followed by blair. We did receive three written public comments from blair bleak man and they were provided on the website and sent to board members. Alex, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: # I just want to make sure I am following directions. I wanted to comment about a community engagement to the meeting earlier today. Can I comment on that now?5:41 PMGo ahead.I understood there were some discussions about doing community engagement appointe appointed -- appointment and talking with the committee and if I can follow up perhaps with director chavez about that to see how we can catalyze and support vta. That would e great. Also when I had a chance to work with vta, I met with Mr. Kuff and he was a great employee nd he spent a long time to vta members and talked about how to go on their routes.Thank you.Next speaker, please. roland, you May begin when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, I also had an experience with him before and my experience was different. And also for the light rail connecting. The other thing is I want to talk about the vta's mission statement that is both the transportation agency and cma. The cma is supposed to be managing congestion, not creating it. The part i'm getting at here is about gilroy and we are about to spend millions of dollars on that line and so my recommendation to the board isvery simple, to get caltrain to buy every single parking lot in santa clara county. We have measure a and measure b to get the job done. Thank you. The last public speaker is blair. You May begin when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. There seems to be much more local input and dialogue for thetechnology speakers for the north san jose and bay area and bart station and had to have more of a review period and it is over rated. That can in fling upon civil rights and civil protection. I hope this will begin the process review and for the vta's transfer hub. Of course all of these projects have equity and reimagined for our community. Thank you.5:44 PMChair hendricks: thank you. I think that was the last part of our public speakers. Next is item 4, we don't have any public hearings. Now we are moving to committee reports. 5. 1. Citizens advisory committee(cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (swaminathan)Good evening, chair hendricks, board members. In the last report, we instituted a contract with the new independent auditor crow. For compliance and auditing on behalf of cac and answered questions. The committee looks forward to submitting the draft audit report. Also at our February agenda, the committeereceived a presentation from the staff on the bus stop balancing program on 6. 8 on your agenda tonight.Meeting, we also discussed and provided input on regular agenda items 7. 3. Since 2016, measure b, themeasure grants nd programs for projects. Although there were concerns on making the exceptions for funding, the committee recognized significant service it provides the community in the end werecommended funding for all five projects in the program with one dissenting vote. This went through a heavy discussion of our team about standards and a lengthy conversations. Lastly, we identified countyresidents nterested in serving. Because we have one open and we'll continue to accept and review open applications including the transition coming at the end of june. There are five people right now. We wouldgreatly appreciate your assistance in studying this. We were earlier ooking for someone from south county.So we'll continue to look for more members, diverse members with a diverse set of skills and experience throughout the greater county. The next cac meeting will be held next week, wednesday, 4:00 p. M. , March 10th. Concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.5:47 PMThank you. next is (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore) someone a question.Yes.Member montano. will somebody be able to get to the meetings?Yes. eventually we will. right now everything is -- we'll be in downtown.I know right now they are virtual but in the future that perhaps you can make it centralized so folks from south county don't have to travel so far. Thank you.5:48 PMThat's a very good suggestion. We will look into that. Thank you for tat.Thank you.Chair hendricks: I would like to make a comment and talk about what post structure meetings will look like and how we will deal with remote access and technology. That is something that will have to be looked at for the cac and across the spectrum for all the vta meetings. I don't have a specific plan. It is somethingwe'll have to look at going forward. I want to check with staff, do we do public comment on all the items that are on the committee report?5:49 PMYes, chair.Chair, this is pat burt.Yes?I seem to be locked out of the video and it May be under your controls.I think the staff is. I got a note they are trying to figure that out.Thank you.We got you that you are here. chairpersons' report. (verbal report) chairpersons' report. (verbal report)good evening, board members. Thursday there was a report to measure b grant programs on projects. We took action after discussing ways to improve the outreach of the city and consider applications in futuregrant cycles including staff announcements to alert members to grant opportunities for their cities.Members also stressed their desire for cities and vta to be pernicious in pursuing this and we received feedback on the report and collaborating together and with the vta to support transit priority and dedicated lanes in their community to the speed and reliability of transit. We reviewed the status report on the program and vta's effort for the network and we received the draft for the ten year program for goals and project selection criteria. The committee discussed federal infrastructure financing tools such as hetransportation infrastructure finance and innovation act program. The committee also discussed the 2016 measure b ballot language pertaining to the funding for the bart extension and the congestion management project selection criteria. Our next pac meeting is scheduled for thursday, March 11th at 6:00 p. M. And will be on zoom. Thank you.5:51 PMThank you.Next we'll move to the standin standing committee chair report. The committee chair reports re online in your packet. I believe member peralez would like to get a report.Yes, I wanted to be able to give a brief report. The planning ommittee met, jimenez, montano and we were all in a meeting and discussed the project and the tree replacement and we talked with the staff about replacing as many trees as close as possible. I was happy to hear from vta staff that they are working on that. We recommended board approval for this item. Our committee also reviewed the recommended project for the service models for the grant and staff reviewed the innovative service business model where the next round of calls for projects. We asked is that of to provide more details on why they should provide the extension for the program. Our committee discussed the program on the biennial budget and preliminary tools and project criteria and asked this be put on the regular agenda and the other one is thetransportation innovative program and three year project initiation work plan and the cal trans it program.Thank you.5:53 PMOkay, great, thank you.The governance and audit committee met and we discussed several programs and including the guidelines and work for that item. Item 5. 4. The policy advisory report is available on the online packet. Before e move out of section 5 items, i'm going to see. It looks like we have hands from the public raised. We'll go ahead and hear the members of our public, please.Yes, roland, you May begin when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. Two quick questions. With regard to the report from montano. We have the governor's executive order changing the requirement of the brown act. This is a good time to provide input. The other comment I have is that this came out of the g & a meeting which from my perspective was enough to solve. Moving forward, I would like you to make the same consideration after the act which is to start the meeting earlier so there is sufficient time to listen to what they have to be doing in that meeting. Thank you.5:54 PMNext speaker, please. blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, at the nextmeeting they were talking about these issues. I'm sorry about bart funding at this time. I hope it can come through in someway that you have a backup plan in some order. It's going to mess with the brt staff. Ihope you will be patient with that process and accept the brt process and what it's about. It has good practices in there to keep a balanced budget hopefully. Thank you and keep up the good work with transitoperation needs. Good luck. Thanks.5:55 PMChair hendricks.. thank you, that's the last speaker. Before I move out of item 5, are there comments my colleagues would like to make? Okay, i'm not seeing anybody raise their hand. I'm moving to item 6.Consent calendar. Items 61 through 6. 12 and 7. 4. Ould anyone like to pull any items from consent?5:56 PMItem 6.2.Yes, do you want to pull that?Just to ask a question.Do you want to ask that question?Sure.Let me go through the others for questions.Supervisor simitian?Thank you, chair. because i'm only in a few meetings into my tenure, if I want to vote no or abstain on this item, how do I do that without disrupting the meeting?5:57 PMI think the board secretary is going to count. When your name is called, you can say I vote yes except items xy and z.Thank you. I believe the item 7. 4 moved to the consent calendar, how is it most appropriately referred to if I May ask so it's clear to the secretary which item i'm going to abstain on?It's just 7.4.Thank you very much. appri iat appreciate it. I will shout out when the time comes.If you don't mind, i'm going to take public comment and then come back to you.Sure.Can we go to public speakers, please.5:58 PMFirst public speaker is roland, please begin when you are ready.Public speaker: thank you. I'm really confused when it comes to g & a and i'm not seeing some items. I'm going to basically give you my $0. 02. You approve the appointment of marty shuof all people. In the last 20 years he's been responsible for the scandal of wasting billions of dollars of measure a on the bartproject. It's the last thing you should have on this. The other part I brought unon the g & a, is that you, Mr. Chair, appointed yourself and the vice-chair to the selection committee to select Mr. Shutter and that should be reviewed by the administration for consideration. Thank you.5:59 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi. There is two items on the consent calendar I wanted to speak about. One was about your developing a cleaning service contract with someone and budget and working with nuria fernandez. It seems a nice time to remember her work. She wanted to set up the clean schedule to be open public practice and for it to be understood what can be the schedule and what to expect from the acu, disability community and drivers and all the people. It takes work and effort to do that. I hope that you can make a clear policy schedule so all the groups can understand. The same with public practices. My wrds. I hope you can practice public policy.6:00 PMChair hendricks: okay, thank you. That was the last part of our public speakers and I will close the public comment question and now I will go to mayor liccardo for his question.Thank you. I think we covered this program but at that time I was focused on something else than the actual expenditure. I have a question about this. The $1. 1 million that would be required to perform a traffic revenue analysis. It's far for me to take any money from the consultant for the industrial complex.But is there something else we are pay for than just the traffic study?6:01 PMThe study is very complex. i'm not the expert on this, but we did discuss with the consultant on the scope of work and they need to do a lot of traffic, to take into consideration the traffic and a lot of the revenue projections. So it is that amount to create this whole study that is going into the financial institutions and they are going to be under scrutiny for it because it's for the loans that we are going after.6:02 PMRight and that's just for financing on a single project, right?No.I believe the scope provided was for the need.6:03 PMHow big is the package. are we looking for the $7 million for the project. How much are we getting?We are getting this project for phase 5 on the 101 and that was $7 million. We'll try again on the projectbut the revenues are for the project and for phase 5 from the 101, to 25 interchange. [away from microphone]6:04 PMAssuming that this is done, this will satisfy all of those projects that are the 101/85 for the $100 million for the 101 and the third project that you mentioned?Yes. that's the same thing.Okay. thank you. I appreciate the information.You're welcome.Now that we have no more questions, would anyone like to make a motion.I make a motion.Second.We have a motion and second to the consent calendar. 6-1 through 6. 12 and 7. 4. Elaine, would you take a roll call vote.6:05 PMGot it. I wanted to confirm. I have a motion from member chavez and second from vice-chair jones?Correct.[roll call]Simitian?I would like to be a no vote on item 6. 2 and abstain for 7. 4.[roll call] motion passes. Thank you.Thank you. that takes us to item 7, the regular agenda. We are going to start with administration and finance (a&f) committee silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update.6:06 PMThey will provide a report.Can you hear me?Yes, thank you.6:07 PMOkay, good evening to you, Mr. Chair and the rest of the board. I will go straight to page 2. This is the report. And we are maintaining our schedule we planned almost a year ago. I'm proud to present this to you tonight. You probably heard faster than I do from the community that we have a very aggressive outreach to the community. I have bernice here who is leading our committee. Bernice?6:08 PMThank you, takis. I wanted to go over some of the key elements in the term and near term outreach efforts. Significant effort that we are working on right now for outreach for these two projects is the construction outreach program. This program consist of three separate plans. The first plan is our construction transportation management plan. And with that plan, it is like how we deal with access,pedestrian movements and everything traffic flows during construction. And currently, we've been reaching out to all of the key stakeholders, businesses, residents, individuals on access to different neighborhoods, access to bibs, traffic partners and things that would e correlated to how we would deliver this project. We are now vetting the information and sharing that with the cities and getting their input and once we havecollected all the data, we will be drawing on a draft on construction transportation management plan and that will go to the construction document. The final transportation plan will be developed with the design builder, progressive design builder and also be vetted with the community so they have in put the into thatfinal plan. The emergency services coordination plan is the plan that we develop for emergency services to ensure that they have access to respond to emergencies and have a plan for any of the detours or routesthat e May be implementing towards this action. This is basically a key plan to drive the communications and education about all the planning efforts to ensure we address the community appropriately and has all the different methods with the way we communicate with all the different stakeholders whether they are a primary stakeholder directly impacted by the project. Maybe they live in the community or going to becommuting by the project. We have tried our best way to reach out to all of those stakeholders and the best way to do so. The community stakeholder outreach. We have our community working groups. We have three separate community working groups for three separate areas. One in santa clara, one fordowntown san jose and diridon station and 1 for the 28th street portugal station. We meet five times a year and plan the schedule before so everyone can attend those meetings and we cover each topic. We just completed our small resource meeting which is what we have done with analyzing how their customers access them, what are the hours of operations, everything that a small business needs to run their business. We have just done an analysis on that and compiling a report and we'll utilize that report tocome up with a small business plan. And we are also doing general outreach along the corridor. We'll be doing some preliminary activity for testing and boring. We will make sure we get in touch with individuals so if they see activities so see what it is like in front of their house or what that May be. We continue to work with the website page and producing collateral right now on the benefits of the project to make sure the community really understand why we are doing this project and how all the benefits that it will bring economic, job benefits and commute and travel time benefits as well as environmental benefits. We usetraditional and social media. We do the social media proactively to make sure we are putting out the latest information and with traditional media, we do respond and participate in interviews and providing information to the immediate extra and take an opportunity when they reach out to us to educate them too. Ots of new information out there and lots of ways to work diligently to be sure they have factualinformation and providing the latest project information to the neighborhood associations and business groups and work very closely with our city and agency partners. I'm happy to answer any questions that you have on our community outreach and stakeholder management.6:13 PMThank you. Mr. Chair, I move up to page four. I move it up here for statements. More than 2,000 drawings, designs have been completed for the project. We are now to the last thousand and we are progressing with the plan to design that. Similarly we are progressing with working with our general counsel, theprocurement office and we are finishing our technical certifications and going along with the designs. I want to share pictures with you today. My former boss, with two hours to go she called me to the office and gave me this certificate and she signed it and asked me to sign that too. We have permitted a project that will receive a plaque certification hich is a goal and I signed it and i'm very mindful for what we have to do from now on to make sure that we are in platinum only level for certification. We support santa clara sustainability program and efforts are all complete. To the right, we alked some time ago with the santa clara state, we finished the electronic system. Every utility, which we might have and I wanted you to see it and some day, with we go back to regular, I will play the whole video all the way to the end of santaclara so you can ave a chance to see it. Moving on to page 5, as I said, we had one we wanted for get outin March and we got it this afternoon. Our contract, that's the first step to our contract and added four qualifications. That's how we are going to reach the contractor. We have two of them already on the street and I would like to show you and I highlighted for you that both agencies, they signed this contract when they go on the statement. Both vta and bart, they signed this contract. We move on and the staff aredoing a great job moving ahead. I wanted to bring to your attention, that we are finishing our first operations for the project. We are working with the staff because we have an accommodation for five parking spaces there. The third part of the agreements, the federal government called them critical. We have agreements with the two cities and with cal trans and we are finishing up now the four agreements.Next week we should finalize the agreement with cal trans and with the two cities we have a target meet in April from the city of san jose and they are going to have the item in front of them and with that, I willcome before you and the general counsel that will determine your board approval for that. Moving to page 7, the fta, I know you are calling the news daily about all the different things. I wanted to tell you weapplied in January and fta continued to asks us ore questions and they have a full-time ten people, I believe, management oversight contractors and they are asking more questions and more clarifications and we keep giving them more of the the economical answers they are asking. I think we are working very well with them. I have to tell you, Mr. Chair, they are working with the vta and their contracting is very good. We are dealing with a big poject, Mr. Chair as you know and we are very aware of them and everyday more questions. They told us they are not going to push the button yet on the applications because the moment they push he button, they have to accept the applications by law. This is the book and the bart presentation and we are almost 100% completed. We have this book to cyber properly by bart and they are going to become partner of the implementation and in May or june, we will do that.Some of you know the joint committee knows that we have established, we are in the process of establishing the fire safety committee. We are obligated by the state of california and that will include fire arshall of san jose and santa clara and we are going to be moving forward. This is nothing new. The last item, we have this from bart and the last page is to highlight the next 3-4 months and the major milestones. That's the end of my presentation. I'm here to nswer any questions you May have.6:20 PMOkay, takis. I want to say thank you. It sounds like you and your team are busy to say the least. Before I go to my colleagues, I will go to public comments. If we can go to our speakers.Yes, roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: Mr. Chair, this agenda was posted last friday. As of Monday night, this item was blank, there was nothing in there. This is very critical formembers of the public to provide written comments in a timely fashion especially after it goes to committee as we get one minute to basically make our comments. First of all, on the community outreach, when will you go out to the community for input on egress and ingres and where is the funding plan for the $6. 4 billion project. Thank you.6:21 PMOkay, thank you.I'm not seeing any other public speaker hands. I'm going to go ahead and close thae public speaker section and now will go to member liccardo.Thank you. what is the issue that needs to be resolved before it commence the 120 day review period?6:22 PMThere is nothing specific, Mr. Mayor. last week they came with a couple items. They asked us about the design lever and rfp for design lever and we compared uses to the purple line and we are there. They come back and raised other questions. As you know they asked about the agreement, they asked about the train control. Every two or three days, we are getting more questions. Now, you are asking me o give you my judgment why we see a little bit of this? This is a big project, Mr. Mayor. I think they are on a scale of doingthis everyday to make sure they recommend signage of this project. That's my recommendation.6:23 PMI appreciate the first project is through the epd program, but relative to other new stars programs, is thisreally that big. They are doing other projects in l. A. And elsewhere.We are the biggest.Okay.I believe new york has a big one. And we are the largest project and because of the stuff that we have done and because who is the boss of fta now maybe they are taking more time to 3 study and making sure they cross every avenue.Okay, I appreciate all of that insight. The last question I had is we shared the tranches of funding that has come to us so far, obviously we would have loved to have another $100 million plus. Do all of those amounts come out of the total for the 1. 5 and $1. 6 billion from the grant agreement. Does that getsubtracted from the otal or is that in addition to what we get from the grant.6:24 PMMr. Lawson can respond to that question.Thank you, mayor liccardo. excellent question. The good news about those funds are that they are outside of the 25% limit that's placed. This is why and is so important that we continue our efforts to have that unding included in the next upcoming infrastructure. Thanks again to you personally for your efforts on this one.Thanks. unfortunately I don't have the parliamentarian on speed dial.6:25 PMWell, she's on my list. [ laughter ]Thanks, everybody.Thank you. member burt?Yes, thank you.I have two questions. the first is on the sustainability aspect. Have we incorporated or considereconsidered any inclusion of a low carbon concrete approach given the massive amounts of concrete and this is an emerging best practice in sustainability. Marin county has adopted a model that basically doesn't lock them into a given technology there, but requires best current feasible practices?6:26 PMYes, my answer is yes. I don't know the specific requirements on the numbers, but as you can see from the certificate on the fourth bullet, it talks about the enhancement. My answer is yes.That May be as follow up and can we get more specifics on that?Yes, if I have it next month, I will share it with you, if not, in May or june.Thank you.My second question is at a higher level on contingency planning for coming up with different scenarios if funding lags. Have we developed a set of of contingency plans where we might, for example delay some ofthe intermediary stations and still get to diridon on time or whatever those scenarios are. Do we have a set of apped out scenarios that are preparing us for different funding timelines?6:27 PMMy answer and I think counsel will talk much better than me. This is one approval. The record of decision speaks to one project with all the four stations. We have to go to the developmental changes and I would leave it with general counsel to answer.Thank you, takis.If there are changes to the project whether or not it is phasing or if there are changes we need to take a look at many different things, not just the environmental. But in regard to the ballot masures, and wewould need to take a look at it all.6:28 PMOkay. thank you.Okay, 'm not seeing anymore questions.Actually I did have a question. This is member montano.The floor is yourself.With regard to the businesses, how many businesses will be impacted and are they going to be compensated in anyway and is that 6. 9 billion part of that compensation. The reason I ask is when bart went through milpitas we had some businesses impacted and vta was able to compensate them in oneform or another. I wonder if this is factored in.6:29 PMHi, this is bernice. we did a very inclose area and worked with edd and got a status on direct corridor and businesses within a half mile. There is about 1500 total that we did analysis on, and as of the study that we did, we compared several other projects and what other projects similar with delivery like this, what the impacts were and what kind of programs they put in place. Based on the study, that's how we'lldetermine what will be the program hat we implement with these small businesses. It could be technical assistance, signage, if there was a need to demonstration some kind of financial condition but we have not seen what the impacts will be, what their mode of operation is, do they rely on foot traffic. It's been quitechallenging because of covid. So we May do a follow-up.6:30 PMRight, thank you. and I really appreciate pat burt's questions. Feel we do need some type of contingency plan in case we run out of money. There has to be something in place to be proactive if you will. I justwant to put that out there and I agree with his comments.That's one thing we'll look at and the pmoc, they make recommendations as to how much contingency dollars are required and that's parcel working with the financing plan that we had discussed previous and our acting cfo.6:31 PMGreat. thank you.Next member paul.I want to talk about the gaps because there were some rojects pulled back on the national level. I'm wondering are there any suggestions for how we go about answering that with fragility because we saw this unfold in a very short amount of time. To me, it seems like a political street fight of sorts for an enormous amount of dollars. If we were able to respond back on any shape or form on a similar level thiswould be appropriate because the way this was characterized was ludicrous. If there is any ability for ours to go forward and respond in a similar type of forum. I know we have lobbyist but at the same time to me, it seemed like we needed to take this conversation in a similar level to how it was delivered to us. That makes a very significant amount of different. So how do we get that kind of agility to respond. There isn'tit ecommendation as to how to do that?6:32 PMMr. Chair, I would be happy to respond.Go ahead.All of these issues are incredibly complex as you understand, and the political dynamic to it is also important. I would like to assure you that we have an excellent team of lobbyist and also have a verydedicated and supported local elected contingency that has been working on this and continue to work on it. The challenge that we had with the political side to the current bill is it would have been fine if the parliamentarian had made a different ruling. The challenge that we had is she made a ruling based on some language that we now understand fully and have taken the appropriate steps to rectify for the next time this comes up. It's difficult to Judge What's going to be successful. I will be blunt and say we neverexpected the republican side of the aisle to vote for any of the projects that were listed in had that bill. And there are now 22 that are currently listed. So it is a delicate balance, mayor paul. And we do try our best to meeting the moment and we'll keep you informed as well as the other board members in seeking aresistance in those cases where it's necessary. I want you to know that both senator feinstein and padilla have been extremely helpful on this matter along with mayor liccardo who has been incredibly active and will continue to do so.6:34 PMWill follow up in comment in sort of a question and follow up on this unseeming role of characterization that was against this in the public's sphere. Would it have been more useful if one of our chair hadresponded to one of these types of letters to the editor or a national publication. I'm not saying that we need to formulate strategy or anything like that, but to be able to respond in that situation where the takesare so incredibly high and lay that baseline down of expectations. It seems like that would be a good idea I always think about and try to anticipate that sort of thing happening because to me, it seems like if we were to redo those two or three days and we could meet them in that court of public opinion, maybe theoutcome is different and that has a very significant amount of financial impact on this project.6:35 PMI appreciate that and I appreciate your insight on that. It's very well said. The challenge that we have in any of these conversations with members who choose to ignore facts or live in a world of alternative facts, it's very difficult to win that argument. The political side of it in this case ested solely and specifically on interpretation made by ne non-partisan member. So, to your point, yes, we could have made that argument and would made a difference, we are not sure, but hindsight is always 2020 and your commentsare extremely important and we will take them to heart.6:36 PMChair hendricks: was that everything, member paul?Yeah, I would only say that, I wouldn't mind considering formalizing that and I know this is just an information item and perhaps somewhere in the if you the where we can basically empower yourself or another member of the board to respond and even if we need the language to essentially defend theproject which is not to say defend the project. I think with this project, we should be describing it in a manner that basically says, we are laying down the groundwork for the next hundred years. We are theeconomic engine, we are going to have a tremendous amount of congestion. We have mass transit issues and this is an incredibly necessary component delayed by decades. If you can et that message out there.That's all I would want to say. If it's necessary to do that, fine, if we can do it now, I would be more than happy to bring something forward to say, let's try to support somebody in that kind of role that can be arepresentative. Because I don't see really see a down side for doing that.6:38 PMI would say the board chair already has the authority to do that and to do something like that which is exactly the messaging and the board has authorized another board member to do that and if we had to make a call, we would have a meeting for that authorization.Mr. Chair, we do have a team who works on putting these messages out and we'll make sure those messages are more broadly circulated. I would also just say, you know, we responded to requests from the media and talked to the media too and interestingly enough I was shocked and very shocked that they didn't always put our message out.6:39 PMIf we can have leave as individual board members to help disseminate that message, I think, just speaking for myself, I guess, I would feel a lot better to have this structure if we had a preset list of acceptable talking points in a situation like this. And collectively, I think with our members and the alternativemembers contacts, we should be able to get a significant amount. The other thing I want to talk about is should we reach out to our local representatives, our state representatives who have more of a vocal and can advocate for us on that situation.6:40 PMYes, sir. they have been all to a person extremely supportive.Thank you, chair. .I'm going back o mayor liccardo.Thank you, chair. to reaffirm that we are also working with other lobbyist on the hill and this was a technical legal issue that the county ruled on and there are other issues going on and not released to what the other party did. I wanted to be clear about that. At this point, we are hearing very clearly from theleadership, they don't want to fight on this right now. They got a relief bill that is pretty darn important, a $9 billion relief bill and going back and forth is not on the clear path. Senator padilla is on the this and is a strong support. So I expect we are going to give this a very strong run in the infrastructure bill and we'll beready to roll. The last thing is that all of us are elected officials. All of us have the ability to speak up about matters concerning our jurisdiction. We shouldn't feel held back and should all check with vta staff to make sure everything we are saying is absolutely ccurate of course and we are being truthful but none of us should be held back. Obviously to the hill which is the publication that is important to folks in the beltway, so we'll be starting to beat the drum and certainly happy to work with others who are interested in beating the drum with us to work on and why this project is so much superior for the projects throughout thecountry and working with these federal dollars. I welcome my colleagues on the board as we get the word out.6:42 PMThank you.Member montano?Thank you, chair. this is a really important project but i'm just curious and i'm not an engineer, but I knowwe have a really high water table. Has that already been fac factored in when this project gets built because I somehow feel we are going bato run into problems when that water gets pumped out and where is it going to go. Maybe this is another time for staff to fill me in on it but i'm justic curious on whether or not this project is sustainable and we need to lobby and get more funding into this project. Those are just my thoughts. Thank you.6:43 PMI think the short answer to your question bout the water table, yes, that has been addressed. Takis, I don't know if you want to add to that?Sure. Mr. Chair. every hundred feet we have information and we have plotted everything out. We are very well aware and competent and we have the special machines to provide the pressure in order to digthrough. And soon, I think maybe in a month or two, we'll take you hrough and show ou more about that.6:44 PMThat would be great. thank you.Thank you.Chair hendricks: okay. i'm not seeing anymore comments on this item. There is a member of the public but we closed public comment on his item. The next item. 7. 2. Action item - approve the changes to the eastridge to bart regional connector: capitol expressway light rail project (hereafter referred to as ' project' ) through the following actions: 1. Adopt the third addendum to the final second supplementalenvironmental impact report (seir-2) (attachment a) acknowledging that the addendum: a. Meets the requirements of the california environmental quality act (ceqa); b. Represents the independent judgment of the santa clara valley transportation authority (vta) as the lead agency; and c. Was presented to the vtaboard of directors for review and consideration. Described in the final seir-2. The documents and othermaterials that constitute the record of proceedings upon which the decision is based are located at vta's river oaks offices, environmental programs, 3331 n. First street, building b-2, san jose, ca 95134. The?Recommended 2016 measure b innovative transit6:45 PMGood evening, members of the board. This is a report 7. 2 and new power poles will be relocated and the relocated transmission lines will need to be removed as part of the project. These are located on public and rivate property. Vta has requested a waiver from this requirement to remove trees from the aerial easement but pg & e has denied this request. Nord to avoid major delays and declines to the project, vta must comply with this requirement. As mandated by the the mitigation monitoring and reporting program for this project, vta will replace the trees at the prescribed ratios. As presented at the February cmpmeeting, staff indicated that there are space constraints that limit the ability to replace trees within the corridor. As a result staff questioned board approval to replace those trees for the corridor. At the cmpmeeting, members asked if areas for replacement could be tied in further to one mile. Staff subsequently consulted with our partner and city forest and confirmed the area could be tightened up to 1/2 mile of thecorridor. Staff is also for tree replacements go to the residents and businesses adjacent to the corridor andwork out from there in terms of tree replacement to ensure that as many trees are replaced as close to the orridor as possible. Staff also met with operations and security staff about opportunities to plant treesunderneath the aerial guide way in the median of capital expressway within the the project corridor. Suffice it to say, there are serious safety and operational concerns about planting trees n the aerial guide way in the federal plans expressway. However, vta staff will continue to investigate to determine if there are designed guidelines and best practices to allow us to safely plant some trees underneath the aerial guided way. There is an estimated financial impact of 60 to $100,000 as a result of the project change but there is funding in the project for this additional cost. If the project is not approved, the alternative is to find another line of voltage for the plan which would increase ost and jeopardize the funding sources for the project. The overall is anticipated to have impact on climate change this if goes to transit. We have received a comment that 18 trees will need to be removed. Due to appended eminent domain litigation, staff cannot comment on the particular letter, but suffice it to say, the result from the property owner as to the easement of the area and will also assist the property to receive approval from san jose. We also received a letter from the county of santa clara that trees that are located in the county express right-of-way will need approval for a tree permit. With that, staff recommends that the board adopt the thirdaddendum and the east connector project. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:49 PMThank you. before I go to public comment, I will ask if there are any other reports from public speakers.6:50 PMYes, there is a letter from the public and it's in the online packet.Thank you.Rolled, you May begin when you are ready.Public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a couple of comments. First of all, i'm unable to find this information on the website. Maybe staff can help me out and let me know how I can find that. The other question I would like to ask if these documents are available online. Thank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: eugene, you begin when you are ready. Good evening, board. Just one issue that have seen with the bart connector is that there are no stops at the ocala station. I know hat is for mixed redevelopment for housing, and the fact that there is no current plan at ocala is really just an insult. Vta plans to want more transient oriented development that will aid in this project. That station atocala needs to be put in to support that new development. It's not good for vta to have no station at ocala.6:52 PMThank you.Did you mention where the documents are available?They are available at the vta website.If you send a link to what those are to me, I can get those to r. Lebron. I'm going to close the publicspeaker section and go to my colleagues and I think member peralez is first.Thank you very much, chair, and thank you, staff, for the report. We had a robust discussion about thisspecifically about the additional tree removal of the 60-70 additional trees and in fact this was actually part of the discussion that we had previously on this item on the trees because that was a concern before and that's where we worked to try to get the actual radius of trying to replace the trees in the area. So when the discussion came up with these additional trees, we dove a little deeper and looking at the map in a 1. 5 mile radius for a replacement of trees, that actually could mean that there could be trees replaced on theother side of 101, on the west side of 101. It just didn't make sense to me and our committee that we would be replacing trees so far away that they are being replaced. The tree canopy on the east side and my colleague has her hand up and we can reiterate this but this is already one of the worse in the city. To remove some of these trees rom this vulnerable community and not replace them in the area would be a huge loss. I would like to thank our director for reaching out to the forest for replacing them and that would be on the general east side and more importantly what was talked about in the opportunity ofreplacing them right there along the or under the guide way and along the corridor. That's where they are getting removed. That's where we want to focus on replacing them as close as possible, but at least we know with a reduced radius, we can ensure that this would not be somewhere on the other side of the 101.Those are my comments and I make a motion to approve with staff's recommendations.6:55 PMSecond.We'll take that as a motion and second from member carrasco. Member carrasco, did you have your hand up and did you want to speak?I do and thank you. I appreciate the comments by director peralez and just to reiterate, 60-70 trees, that's a lot of trees, but it only ads to east side of san jose and of e - course I represent the corner of san jose. It happens to be by the way, just on the other side of the street of the district that I don't represent but ofcourse it all runs concurrently and contingent, I should say just one large expressway that we all represent. So,ings -- when I had one arborist do an analysis on the east side, we are 25-40% less than one of the beautiful areas of the area which is willow glen and we are trying to really see how we are going to increase the canopy on the east side of san jose. When I think of that long corridor and how we want to encourage people to get on that bus or catch brt or light rail and walk to those shops, we want toencourage them by creating walkable communities. So, I just really encourage that as we go back to replanting those trees, that we are very strategic that we come to the table obviously with our city forest, but really to design those walkable communities so that they are encouraging that they are inviting, that we keep in mind, these are going to be individuals who are transit dependent, probably mothers with very young children. I told this story repeatedly. My mother who left my family just three years ago, died of skin cancer. And so i'm very cognizant of the harmful effects of the sun and what it can do to people with very light skin or very dark skin. It doesn't make a difference. So, 60-70 trees -- is a loss to the community, butadding them back is only when they are intentionally designed to keep people covered from harmful rays and intentionally designed to attract people to use the transit. I'm seconding the motion, not because i'mthrilled about removing them but with the intention of hopefully being very intentional in our design when we replant them.6:58 PMThank you. I think our board secretary had a comment.Yes, to the member of the public who had a question about where the environmental document is, it's included in part of the packet on 7. 2a. If you open the pdf packet, it's on page 153. It's also available on the project website.Thank you.Chair hendricks: member carrasco, did you have another question?6:59 PMNo.I'm just checking.Thank you for that.We have a motion and second. are there any other comments from my colleagues? Before I answer for the board, I don't think anybody is for removing trees and glad to see everybody is working as best as they can trying to get the trees replaced back close to where they are having to be removed and i'm hoping, i'm sure staff is going to work with people to make sure the right kind of trees are going in and will be better from wherever the new trees will go to. With that, can we please vote?7:01 PMYes, this is for item 7.2. motion by peralez, second by carrasco. [roll call]Next item. 7.3.7. 3 action item - 1) approve innovative transit16 measure b - service models projects; and 2) authorize the general manager to execute the necessary agreements for? The 2016 measure b innovative transit service models competitive grant program. These are the program constitutional right and due to the delay of covid, we have the applications --Jane, i'm going to interrupt you for just a second. I'm getting some crackling. Maybe if you turn your video off, it will turn off some.7:02 PMSure, I can do that.Sure. we'll see if that is better. So the minimum score required is 75 and we have requested $5. 8 million in total funds. Of the five projects, we have new projects that are existing with extensions. Here are the five projects and ranked by score and the milpitas project that will be as both of the cities will work with the project and this is the operation with four of the cities and milpitas and bart station being one of them and bart with over 100 virtual stops. The community shuttle project is an expansion of their existing program with the community, mountain view is proposed to expand their service to include -- this shuttle is free for all. The project does have their innovative programs to users and staff is ecommended that theboard make a one time exception and fund this program. Should all five projects be funded, there is a balance of $186,000 that staff proposed to the next cafr projects for the next two years or so. As mentioned earlier this evening, the technical citizens and the advisory committee as well as cmp received and approved staffs ecommendation with much discussion and will agree to fund this so they can deliver this service. The project implementation must be within one year of receiving the funding award. With that, we recommend that you approve the project and enter into agreement. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:05 PMThank you, jane. before I go to my colleagues, let's go to our public comment. Theodora, will you let thespeakers in.Yes, roland, you May begin when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair, the only comments I will make is what I echoed in committee, if you apply this to the committee, you apply to the bart project to the program. Thank you.7:06 PMThank you. I think that was all of our public speakers. I will go to board member paul.Thank you. I would like to speak to my jurisdiction, even though i'm in another district and there is a back story and what my staff tell me is that they did consult with vta staff and they were discouraged from actually putting forward an application and I really don't know what happened. Of course from myperspective, it's not a conversation that I was a party to. But my staff id tell me they subsequently did submit something to that deadline. Is there any kind of ability to work at the surplus money and see whether that proposal would have been meeting a baseline criteria for that restriction and I think I would like to include that in the program and would like to see if that is a possibility.7:07 PMMember, if i'm understanding your question correctly, you are asking if we did receive the application, we did on february, I have not looked at the application as the deadline has passed. I think your ext question was will we look at the application to see if it qualifies for any funding. Is that a correct, is that what you are asking?7:08 PMYes, ecause you mentioned that there is surplus funding that wasn't awarded in this cycle. So instead of holding it for nearly two years, would it be possible to consider this late application given thecircumstances, and just for the sake of completing the picture. I have indicated to our own city staff, that look, even if you do get what you have perceived as discouraging feedback, put in the application, you never know. There is an application here that doesn't meet the criteria. So there is a scenario that youwon't meet the criteria as well. That's my question. Can that be considered for at least the surplus funding?7:09 PMWe will have to go back and confirm with management about this. I would say no, because we have completed all the applications submitted on time. That is a factor to consider. I would say for the record that if staff felt that we and other offoh pioneered, # -- opined and staff did not consider that. The scoring can be for all the projects fairly. Stprogram staff do not program the project again because we are too close to it.7:10 PMUnderstood. I just wanted to put that in the public record because I think maybe the idea of let's be -- real cognizant about this application and my staff, they sentiment after the confirmation was that we shouldn't even apply because they wouldn't score high. Just if you take that into consideration as this is beingcontemplated and again with a viable program that is doing innovative things that is going along as well, they are doing some bus experiments in some jurisdictions as well. I wonder if it is the best utility of these resources to let them sit for almost another two years while the need is there. Thanks so much.7:11 PMChair hendricks: thank you. member chavez.Thank you, I think just reflecting on what d'arcy is saying. I think if the staff, I think the point is well-taken, right? the two ear wait. I think what I would say to staff is I wouldn't just consider this application. I would consider whether or not it makes sense to do nother rfp to see what else is out there and in part because I think it's an important question that d'arcy raises about fairness and there May have been other people that missed a deadline and someone May have gotten discouraged and didn't put something in. Asstaff consider this, I would like to consider an additional rfq and d'arcy, when the staff make the recommendations, I would like them to be specific about the discussion they have around vta. I wouldn't say that is not a reason not to turn in an application but maybe a learning situation for our staff and yours.7:12 PMAbsolutely, thank you.Mr. Chair?Yes.Thank you. to member mayor paul, we do apologize if there was any perception that your staff was discouraged. I would say that vta has a long history of grants and grant applications and we strive diligently not to leave that impression and we'll work going forward to make sure that is the case. In terms of your request, we will consider it and get back to you with a response. The challenges that we have is trying to be fair. You make an excellent point about when there is additional funds, but this is one of many if you will grant applications that we do deal with. It is necessary that we be fair and again, the scoring is not done with vta staff. It's done by a panel that is brought together for this purpose. Thank you for bringing that to our attention and we will get you a response.7:13 PMThank you very much. I really appreciate member chavez's recommendation as well for that kind of surplus fund that would otherwise be carried over for another hundred years. Through the chair, I apologize, I didn't ask to speak.7:14 PMNo, you are fine. member eng?Thank you, I appreciate the process and the suggestion put forth by member chavez. So at this time i'm asking a question. At this time can we amend the motion if a motion was made to put forward that the surplus funds be rfq be added to go out again as member chavez suggested. So, could that be done or would we lock into?I will just say, I don't think a motion has been made yet and we can make any motion as we want. That's something we can do as a board. I will just point out that I think this bucket of money in this two year cycle of this million dollars and what we are talking about is less than $200,000. The smallest project was $650,000. And my preference would be that we don't actually make a motion to do that, that we let staff go ahead and determine what might be the best process going forward and how they might deal with the equity of reopening this question and what it would mean in terms of the amount of money available and the time and energy to do that and they can come back and give us an update later on with what they determine. But I don't think we should lock staff on doing this. But whoever is putting in the motion.7:15 PMThe process of available funds at this time was $6 million for four years of allocation available due to thelawsuit. The next call for projects will likely be about half of that, so about $3 million.7:16 PMAnd I just want to reiterate what was left.This is about taking one project that was late without opening it up. I produce ebt that. At the same time, you are right, the amount of money that the left is not really going to be able to be of much assistance and i'm afraid we would be opening up to a lot of people about this disappointment afterwards. The funding level is going to be much lower so this is less than $200,000 that can be used to augment that slightly.Okay, i'm not seeing anybody with a raised hand. I don't know if anybody else has any questions or thoughts. Is someone willing to make a motion for how to proceed?7:17 PMI will make a motion to accept staff's recommendation.Okay.A second by liccardo.Can I make a substitute motion.I have got to put on my parliamentary hat.I would like to substitute a motion to instruct the fund and instruct staff to go into the possibility of opening up an rfq to see those funds in the near future.7:18 PMLet's see if there is a second. Member simitian?I will second for the purpose of discussion.If anyone wants to speak, put the your virtual hands up.So, I think what I would like to see achieved here, I know that $180,000 isn't much in comparison to the pot but I would have liked to have an equal footing and how this process and communication ended up being perceived. I'm okay with granting staff of vta a leave to make that determination and have that empowerment as to whether reopen, but I would like to lay off the equities and i'm not asking for any reallocation of recommended allocations here. Thank you.7:19 PMMember simitian?Thank you, Mr. Chair. the motion was ade was for staff to ask questions and that was the motion that paul used and I can second that and I take your point that is a small amount of money relative to theadministrative cost and burdensome of going out again and I share your concern, Mr. Chair about eing overrule restrictive. I think mayor paul asked and softened the language to ask about these. If we don't go down that path, that's fine. I take staff's point that the next tranch will be smaller and be helpful. I also think the more we can move forward sooner rather than later, the better. And once we are back to normal,whatever that looks like, we are going to have these congestion on us pretty quickly. If we can do something later, that would be great. If not, it's worth another look.7:20 PMIs there anybody else looking to make a comment on this before we vote? i'm not seeing that. I'm not going to be supporting the motion for the comments and the reasons I stated earlier. With that, could we a vote.7:21 PMFor the substitute motion which is to accept the staff recommendations and ask staff about the possibility to reopen the project or fq to distribute the surplus funds in the near future. Did I get that right, member paul?Yes, thank you.Before we call the vote, member montano, did you want to say something before the voluntary it?Yes, chair. our city is the recipient of one of the grants. Should I recuse myself?No, you can vote on this. the motion is not about trying to change anything on the existing grants. And any of the cities who are on the board here are allowed to vote on this.Okay, thank you.Okay. joe, is your hand up? just checking. I think we've gotten everybody. We are voting tonight substitutemotion. Elaine, would you please call the vote.7:23 PMClerk: [roll call] motion passes with 11 ayes and 1 no, for the substitution motion.Okay, the substitute motion passes and we are going to move on. Before we move on, mayor montano, did you want to say something?No. for item 7. 4, we addressed on the consent calendar. Item 7. 5.7. 5. Information item - review fiscal year 2021 statement of revenue and expenses forecast. (verbalreport)Thank you, members. this is an information item to discuss the forecast of the revenue and expenses. We have the three columns. On the left is this year's current budget adopted by the board mid-2019 andimplemented last year and we have no eceives lower than expenses in other areas before the funds apply.The middle column shows the optimistic scenario of the projections presented last December to the board.As you May recall, suggestions at that time range 3 from about 46 million to $80 million. The right hand side column is the focus tonight. The current staff projection of operating balance by the end of this fiscal year, is approximately $40 million in a range to $45 million. This is before utilizing cares act funding to bridge this gap. In other words, if the operating balance at the end of this fiscal year was exactly an is weprojected at $39 million, the same amount of cares act will be used to balance the budget for this fiscal year and the funds will remain for future use. Reserve balance will remain intact. Notice that our currentprojections are significantly lower than but the current budget due to on going related financial challenges.Vta has been and still keeping expenses under control in response. The fourth coming biennial budget will include cares act and crssa funding. The current production will include a slightly lower balance than what was presented last time mostly due to projection to revenues which the board received in a preview backin January with the staff and Dr. Lyella of the ucla anderson forecast. We'll talk about these revenues in a couple minutes. Moving on to fare revenue projections shown here are fare collected through 2021.Between august 2020 and January 2021, on average, monthly fare revenues were approximately $1. 4 million. That also includes revenue from smal small -- smart pass contracts. The current projections on other revenues due to low advertisement on ncome and fees collected. Moving on to the expense, current projections on total expense is slightly lower than what we forecasted in last December which is basised on# -- based on our most quarterly recent results and bus ervices since February 8th of this year. So as I mentioned a minute ago, I will spent a minute to talk more about sales tax revenue related source. This table is as the previous one. Among these sales tax related revenues, only one transportation development also known as tda is projected to be slightly higher than budgeted. All sales tax revenue sources are either on budget or actually significantly lower than budget particularly state transit assistance sta. I want to point out one thing in particular which is that for the local sales tax revenue, when we compare the last three fiscal quarters, April june, July through December and October through December 2020, compared to the same time period one year ago, we have yet to see a clear trend or clear path for recovery. In other words, in the year quarters we have seen some fluctuating as much as 17%. As I said bfore, the one time in funding in the form of cares act and if you wanting will be important tools in the next final budget cycle n terms of balancing our budget. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:29 PMThank you, franklin. what i'm hearing from you is the crystal ball moving forward is still hazy?That's correct.Before I go to my colleague questions, will go to public comment.7:30 PMMay we have the speakers, please.Yes, roland, you May begin when you are ready. Public speaker: first of all I would like to say thank you formaking it possible to see the funds from the cares act funding and what we have for the people on the sides of the road. The only other question that I have is the figures that I have on tda, that santa clara county is the only county in the entire area and this is not reflected in the figures. I would be interested in knowing what on your percentage increase on the initial bus revenue projections to get a better idea of how much we have here. I believe it's higher than what is projecting refund to on the revenues. Thankyou.7:31 PMChair hendricks.. that was the only public speaker and i'm going now the public speaker section and go to my colleagues for questions. I will wait for a second to see if anybody has any comments or questions?I have one.Go ahead.Basically if we idn't have the cares act, we would really be in the hole, I guess. [ laughter ] so yeah.I believe that is an accurate statement.Yeah. so I know many cities are going through budget cuts and it's not a pretty picture, and you know, to the point even when we have to let some folks go. I was wondering if vta is doing that or is that not anoption?Does staff want to talk about some of the things that are being done to try to manage the expense side of things?7:32 PMI will address that. as you know the management has been managing the expense side by not filling vacant positions. We were a little bit under with our transit operators for the numbers that were needed during the pandemic and we have been able to manage by a significant vacancy factor by 14% now. Wehave not had to lay off people.Us too. we are making different rounds. Round one, wii didn't fill any vacancies and still going through round two. You are probably going to be doing that too. Thank you.Kathleen, before I go to the next speaker. To make sure i'm reading the chart right. When we talk about what we've done from what was budgeted to what our current argin projections are, we are saving about $45 million on the expense side, is that correct?7:33 PMRight. we projected about 425, we are at 480 million.Right, I want to put that into concrete numbers.Mayor liccardo?Yes, I had a question about that last slide. My understanding was as that significant amount of federalmoney is contingent on fare box return and obviously we are seeing much lower revenues there, and i'm trying to understand the tda number actually goes up, not down. Is there any element of federal funds dropped missing, what am I missing?7:34 PMMayor liccardo, there is a reason why vta has gone to lower revenue and collectively we found out from the state department of vehicle administration because of the course of the nature of the pandemic, there have been mowre online transactions which drive tda revenues but because of much of our retail sectors,restaurants, are still during the pandemic and shutdown mode. So we suffered on the other hand on our local sales tax record. Basically on our point of sale and leaves the destination between the two evenue sources.7:35 PMOkay, thank you for that. that actually does help clarify one other issue I had. Thank you for that answer. I realize I didn't ask the question very clearly. Let me try to reframe the question. Isn't there also federal formula money that is dependent on our fare box return revenue from transit, and is there a reason why --Sam, you have gone muted.Sorry about that.. is that drop in federal funds --It's a good question and to the extent possible, most of those requirements have been suspended during the duration of the pandemic. So it hasn't been the impact that we have seen. A lot of it was done due to good work by the california transit association in pushing that message. While it didn't impact us as much because the better than expected sales tax revenue, it certainly was an advantage to a lot of other operators in the state.7:36 PMOkay, that's happy news. thank you very much for the answers.Chair hendricks: okay, i'm not seeing any other questions. Kathleen, can you remind us when we'll get the next update on the budget numbers?The big time is in april. there is going to be a workshop in April and that will be looking at the proposed biennial budget, the budget coming up for the next two years and that will also include city updates thatwe have for the projections for the current year. You will then receive the quarterly report similar to what you have here and that is not scheduled until may. The main time is going to be in pril for the workshop.7:37 PMWe'll have the April meeting and in the next 45 days, expect there is potentially interesting information that might be available to all f this. Great. Sam, I think your hand is up from before. That's what i'm going to assume. I'm not seeing any other information from my colleagues. I'm going to move on to preliminary 2016 measure b 10-year program principles & project selection criteria. I believe kathleen kelly is going to share.Thank you members of the board. Since I provided more information, I will have a short update tonight.This is advised by the board and committee to bring you a full report in April and my. As you May remember, this item is related to the 2016 measure b program discussed at the workshop. We are undertaking this process now for the purpose of the ten year projects that will start next fiscal year 22 and go through fiscal year 2031. And more importantly from timing standpoint, we are doing this now to allocate funding from measure b proceeds from the upcoming biennial budget. These are the categories.The categories on the left are grouped together as formula based program and the left are need capacities program. There are five proposed principles. The first of which was added based on the suggestion of the board's workshops. I'm not going through the individuals since they were covered in detail at themeetings. But if the first approval would be funded for the allocation of the programs and that will be for the shares specified in the ballot measure. The fourth principle if approved would allocate the need forcapacity of the based programs would be based on board approved project selection and criteria which we will see next. So this is the list of the proposed project selection criteria that we discussed at the advisory board committees in march. These criteria are proposed from making allocations for projects in the needcapacity based programs only. Again, 'm not going through these individually ecause we discussed them at the committee meetings. I do just want to point out that as we went through he review process with committees, it became clear to us that the first three criteria project deliver status funding status and partner agency community support can be grouped to go as project readiness criteria and this is very critical when a project is considered for the budget. I want to give you a summary of the discussions we had in the process. First there was general acceptance of the principles with only a few suggestions andclear into the recommendations that we will make to you next month. The principles that we recommend will be very close to what you see here. There was more discussion around project selection criteria andstaff has carefully considered the comments as we develop the recommendations that you will see next month. In general, committee members requested more definition for the metrics that will be used under the project selection criteria and they expressed a desire to better understand how the criteria will be pplied and implemented. Some of the key questions they asked are included here. Will all of the criteria beapplied to each of the six need capacity based programs categories and if so, how. And if they will apply to all the program categories, will they apply to programs already received funds in the same way as programs that have not received allocated funds. An example of that, the highway program but no funds have been spent. The question was will the criteria be applied there the same as other projects. Finally, will the criteria be applied to program categories that already have an existing prioritization methodology which is the county express ways and if so, how will they nteract with the methodologies alreadyestablished. These are valid concerns and staff is working on a set of recommendations that are intended to respond to these questions and concerns. So let's look t this timeline for the next steps. At the top f this diagram, you will see the schedule or the upcoming vta board actions. We are here now in March with thisinformation item, sharing feedback that came from the various committees during meetings in february.We are moving now to the next phase where we will we developing actual recommendations on both the principles and criteria and will vet those through the committee process in March and 3 run to the April board meeting for your consideration and approval. If the board approves the principle criterias in april, staff ill develop the measure b program or the years 2022 through 2031, as well as for the biennial budget that will cover the next two years. The ten year program and biennial budget recommendations will be for the vta board to consider and approve in may. The full vta budget with the vta transit part of the budget will not be approved until the June meeting, but it's been our practice to adopt some components of the budget in May and have incorporated in the overall udget in June and that is our plan for the program.Finally, I want to acknowledge that this has been and continues to be a very aggressive schedule and I want to thank in advance the technical staff that the cities and ad hoc committees working with staff to come up with the recommendations. As you will have the opportunity to review this at the April board meeting and to take action at the May board meeting on the ten year program and biennial budget. I will stop here and respond to questions or comments. Thank you.7:44 PMChair hendricks: thank you, kathleen.We will now go to public comments. Public speaker: roland: thank you. This is crystal clear. I do have a question to the chair, the first one, the bart funding plan to include $2 million in measure a and when are we going into the same exercise with measure a, and also given that there is over $1. 10 billion inmeasure b on the plan, and when will we receive the funding plan based on the information that we have and start planning accordingly. Thank you.7:45 PMNext, we have blair. you May begin when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, the google meeting at diridon station has just ended. Thank you for this information. The words that I offered earlier, you know, open budget practices, how e can talk about the budget more from a difficult beginning to make that open isimportant concepts. So I wish you luck in how we talk about these issues and I hope the local community will respect this brt process and work with it and not fight it. There is a whole host of things to talk about.Thank you for this effort.7:46 PMOur last public speaker is eugene. You May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker:Good evening once again, board members. I sent to vta staff as well as interim general manager tran some concerns regarding the 2016 measure b project specifically highway 85. There needs to be bike paths that are critical and particularly san jose that meets the to be vta compliant. That's something that I will be waiting to answer from vta staff. I want to let the board know that there is an inequity issueparticularly with one of promises to voters for the highway that vta must address. Thank you.7:47 PMChair hendricks: thank you. I think that was our last public speaker. So 'm going to close the public speaker section and go back to my colleagues for comments or questions that they would like to ask.7:48 PMI have one.Council member montano.Thank you, chair. can you remind me, are these program principle, the six that were shown to us earlier?Yes.And if so, are they prioritized by the number.If we can go to the next page.Can you hear me?Yes.There is a page here that has the principles, the next one. These are the five principles, they are not listed in priority of the programs, the formula - based programs and the need capacity based programs.7:49 PMOkay.The project election criteria that is shown on the next screen would only apply to the need ased project.This is one that i'm a little bit confused since we are a congestion management agency. I'm confused why this isn't. Can you expand on this?This is based on criteria suggested by one of the board members after the workshop that we decided what was on par and should be considered with the other ones along ones especially if you look at four. This was part of the question that came hrough the committees as to exactly how would these be applied to the projects and that's what we are working through right now.7:50 PMChair hendricks: I think just specifically on congestion management that to be sure that the money we are spending to reducing congestion is a priority we should be trying to make sure that for an objective to try to achieve.Yes, because we are a congestion management agency. That's good to remind us. Thank you.Member liccardo?Thank you. the principle seems fine at first but I have no idea how you quantify or score these with actual projects. I remember going through an exercise with the rtp with the metropolitan transportation commission and they used these models with cost benefit analysis and all of these things. I know we are not going to hire consultants to do that. I hope not. How exactly do you do this with anything that is objective and scorable?7:51 PMThe first three are actually pretty simple. Those really look at the project readiness. It's the next four that are far more challenging and this is also where we ot the questions about, well, how can we have metrics that cover different programs. Some cases we already have programs where there is already a project sponsor. So how would these really be used. We also have a process that's been authorized to have priorityon these projects like the express ways. That's what we'll have in the next couple weeks bringing back to you with recommendation when we meet with you in april. We have some thoughts about that andpreparing to go out and working with the tac ad hoc and with the other committees. So by the time we get back to the April board committee, we'll have a lot more detail that we can offer for you.7:52 PMThank you and I don't expect this to be easy so good lck. And just on the subject of not easy, you know, no one is going to argue about these principles but I think they are pretty clear. With the example of congestion management, unless we are doing traffic studies and modeling, with the ridership, you can dosomething but what kind of proxies do you use to try to assess the value of the congestion management?7:53 PMYou would have to realize that you have to measure differently with a set of programs and set of metrics that we can use for caltrain grade separation versus highway interchanges. So there again, that's what we are working on now is to put metrics with those and put them with projects which will need to be evaluated with those metrics.Okay. appreciate it again. not easy. Last question, I mentioned where they were with the rtb and the cost benefit analysis was the driving factor in all of those and i'm curious why the word cost benefit and ridership don't magically appear in these principles. I can certainly see how these can be integrated inseveral of these elements depending on how you interpret them, but those are often standards other used to assess one project against another project and why weren't they used here and by that I mean, cost benefit and ridership?7:54 PMI think that's something I would like to think about and get back to you.Okay, thanks for your answers.Chair hendricks: member simitian?Will it me tell you I appreciate seeing congestion management there. I was the board member who asked and the phrase I used was congestion mitigation, but the staff was reminding us that we are a congestion management agency. And that's exactly why I asked for congestion management or congestion mitigation to be listed to member montano's point. I ort of thought we were missing the bottom line goal which was to mitigate or manage or reduce congestion, and I was trying to underscore as I mentioned it at a prior meeting that vta is a congestion management agency and to have the criteria that are principals that did not straight ahead say that it was congestion management, congestion mitigation was a glaring omission. I want to say that maybe as director montano said it should be a given, but I sort of feel like it was the central point but nonetheless overlooked. To be, to tie it together with the mayor's comments, directorliccardo, i'm not suggesting that we are going to be able to crunch the numbers fairly well and have a finally tuned calculation, but just a for instance, i'm looking at project deliver status. If I have got a project that is ready to go that doesn't eliver much in the way of congestion mitigation but I have another one second on the line that has huge congestion management, I would like staff to say, wait a minute, justbecause we are first in line, that would be the way to go and something to use for congestion mitigation.This is why I asked for the numbers for bart to san jose and bart to silicon valley. When you spend $2. 3 billion and thanks to staff for confirming the numbers. $2. 3 billion for a system that is projected toproduce 17,000 trips which is really, 8 or 9,000 folks from contra costa and alameda county and that is minimal and I want to gauge that against the potential from other projects and weigh them from one toanother and we had that previous conversation about the earlier scenario that had no allegations to the sixth criteria. I know we are looking at a different piece of paper these days and I appreciate that and thank you for it and staff came back with something else we can look at. But we are only two meetingsaway according to ms. Kelly from making the decision about what that ten year plan looks like and I want to be sure as we go through the next two meetings that the projects ability to actually reduce congestion which is what a congestion management agency is about, is in fact embedded in the criteria. So that's the back story there. I would like to ask staff, Mr. Chair, on the ten year principles, if I can ask that that be back up on our screen and I have a question for I think is ms. Kelly or if she will direct me to somebody else. And this one is a little hard for me to articulate. So i'm going to ask my colleagues to be patient with me and lean in a little. I think there is a question that we have yet to grapple with. When there is apercentage tab which is 25% for silicon valley, how do you know in the first 10 or 15 years, whether or not the expenditures are exceeding what will turnout to be 25% because you don't know, I mean the obviousquestion is 25% of what and as you heard earlier, it's a really hazy crystal ball. So how you save 25% from something nd 18 years away, I don't know. How do we prevent the allocation of funds, ms. Kelly, in such agreat amount that we discover 5 or 10 or 15 years from now or 30 years, from the cap.7:59 PMThat is a great question and as we have seen this this last year what can happen with the projection of sales tax revenues. The best we can do is when we make sure we are doing our estimates, we are beingsomewhat conservative on those. It still doesn't mean that we couldn't be wrong, but we do know that we have a project that is going to be moved in the early years of this and we have to make sure we are staying on the somewhat conservative side of our estimates.8:00 PMTo be clear, ms. klly, and I know ou are not a board member and i'm not trying to invest you with policies you don't have. But you are not suggesting that we just go ahead and allocate money for a big ticket item like bart to silicon valley and then hope later n that we haven't over spent it, are you?I'm not saying you should hope, but I think we have to be reasonable about it. There is not an intent to wait until the very end of the project to be able to spend the funds that we absolutely know that. So I willbe happy to talk with legal staff about this. I think you raise a very good point. We'll have to do the best we can with the estimates.8:01 PMThe only thing that is more estimatable that are for the bart projects from another scenario, would be doing that in a way that ended up exceeding the 25% limit which was explicit and approved by the voters.So that would be, you know, doubly problematic and you know at a minimum, staff needs to come back with some kind of proposal that says we will base the allocation over a period of years based on the mostconservative estimates of our revenues and that there will be a check in every year or two or three at most to say we need to true up the estimates so that if we have a period of years where revenues are down, that the allocation of no more than 25% be reduced to meet that. Now, by the same token, if it turns out that sales tax returns are more robustly at the high end, I want to be sure the project is eligible for the full25%. I think that true up every year or two is going to be essential but just sort of saying, well, we'll give bart to san jose whatever it says it needs or wants and hopes that that's 25%, at the end of the 30 years, that's not a solution that I think I find acceptable. You can't tell people who are honoring the commitment but allocating the money in the hope that it comes to that level in the future. The last thing I will ask, asyou talked about the adoption of measure b in may, we have the action in May and the budget in june. Do we simply incorporate everything from the measure b ten year plan into the budget, is that the way that works?8:03 PMThe short answer is yes and there are other major components to the larger budget that get approved prior to June and also getting incorporated into that.Yes.Thank you, I think the other question I would ask Mr. Chairman and from the appropriate staff member is we get questions with getting information at the last minute 3 and that expenditure that has multimillion dollar applications and when will we get it in advance of the May meeting because the May meeting is going to be n us pretty quickly here, May 6, I believe, nd if it's given this brouhahaings mentioned, how soon will we get this budget?8:05 PMIt will go to the advisory committee several weeks prior and to the board committees before you see it as the full board. So almost a month.Through the chair, you said the budget, was that the budget or the ten year spending plan which is the issue i'm most concerned about unshining early?Both. the document that we are preparing for May will be the ten year plan as well as therecommendations for the biennial budget and that's what we'll be going through all the committees in april.Thank you. I think that's really not only helpful and important but reassuring ecause I have got constituents saying what's happening, what's happening, and I want to be able to tell them that you will see now and time after time so that is helpful. Thank you for the information about ridership and cost.Much appreciated.8:06 PMCan I also address your comment about the true up. I wasn't clear about this. Every two years, the board will be updated the biennial plan and the budget. So what gets approved this year, will be reevaluated two years from now and there will be a true up process at that time every time that we come forward with thelatest budget projections as well as looking at where projects are in terms of readiness if they have been inthe ten ear program. Say they were near three or four but they have been delayed so now they are not quite ready to move into the budget process as we have expected. So there is a natural true up process every two years.8:07 PMI think the other thing through the chair that might be helpful was consideration or discussion about whether or not that piece of the bart program could be installed unless there are revenues forthcoming and my understanding that there May not be an absolute necessary need for the section as this system moves forward. I don't know how that process works, but if there is a way to have some pieces of the project be contingent n available funding, rather than just sort of assume we are going to keep building because themoney will be there whether or not e exceed the 25%. That will be helpful as well.Chair hendricks.. thank you. and I think we are going to make sure for the agenda for these meetings that we have plenty of time to have discussion on these topics. Member paul?8:08 PMThank you, chair. . Could I share my screen? Would that be possible? That's okay. This goes to membersimitian with regard to the allocations. I think essentially what it is is that if a particular program has cap,how you do you make it so that cap doesn't effectively et exceeded when you include financing and the interest payments. So, on the third page of our board memorandum, there is a set of preliminaryprinciples. The last one is under the subheading use financing tools when projects are ready subject to available capacity. And in the committee meeting, that is stpl expressing this and I captured that to omeextent in this memorandum. But I think more specifically, and to describe it as quickly as I can, I think the best way or at least one way to ensure that that funding doesn't only exceed the cap of 25% is basically to set the same limit with regard to financing that you would set with the overall funding. So that I think takes care of you off the top problem where you know, I would suggest adding potentially for the purpose of discussion the following language at the end of that section nd it would go, 'to the extent that a cap on measure b be extended for a similar program, financing should be relative for overall financing applied' and really in straight forward terms, if you are looking at the bart extension having 25% of the overall funding, you would cap its bore on the ground of the 25% on the overall borrowing as well. That would essentially address that concern. The 25% might turn into a de facto of 25% after all financing considerations areaccounted for at the end of the life of the measure. So, I also want to say that i'm just putting this forward for discussion purposes because I realize that there could well be a perception, that if we finance, we May need to borrow a lot more than 25% of the overall dollars. But also want to make a point that this might ctually be if we have this implemented as a policy for the financing, that it May be a very legitimate way for us to say, we are trying to accede the voters for understanding and at the same time brings us at an advantage for this and you can borrow a large amount if we have a policy in place because we are sayingwe want to answer to what the voters are understanding these allocations are going to be. I think that is a very legitimate answer and hopefully gives us a better chance to put forward a stronger package of requests from external sources for funding. So I just want to put the that forward. Maybe there is somelegitimate issues with the proposal, but those are my thoughts on making sure that we have in place that actually stays consistent with the language of the measure.8:12 PMThank you.If I can ask a clarifying question on the financing because the financing is not going to be attributed o eachproject.Why not? if you are going to borrow, then you need to figure out where the money needs to go, right? How do you know how much to borrow for what a particular project needs. If you need $100, you need to have an idea of where it's going to go?Right, but the way the financing would work is the entire program would be put together and if in a given year, the cost for the entire program exceeds the revenues that are available, then we would look at the financing. It's an off the top kind of project not a specific project. It's not a staff determination. It's theway it is set up in the measure. I can have legal counsel address that if you wish.8:13 PMI think you can conduct that analysis and still look to borrow from the program when you start allocating. I understand the potential here. But I don't know also what the financing needs are going to be based on the other criteria or the perspective financing needs are going to be. It's just a suggestion for discussion. Ithink mathematically it works out in terms of basically saying if you said the borrowing allocations are consistent with the distribution and the measure language, it should in the end work out.8:14 PMThank you, member liccardo.Just a quick question for working on the funding plan here. In terms of outside grants that we might need to attract, as far as I understand there is one significant grant left and that is the full granting agreement from the fta, am I correct?You are exactly right.That decision is going to to be made in roughly 120 days?That is our hope.Okay, anything we do to start to decide to cut our local funding for this will affect that decision clearly and would that be a positive thing or negative thing when you decide whether to allocate $1. 57 billion?There is no easy answer to that, but it's hard to perceive it as a positive.8:15 PMRight.If I might just say for the benefit of Mr. Paul and Mr. Simitian, staff is very concerned about living up to theletter of the law on that measure, and keeping the expenditure within the 25% cap. We are being guided by that. Our staff at the bart project being guided by that, our finance staff is being guided by it and we are not going to wait two years for the board to be informed about where we are on either the budget or the ten year plan. There will e regular updates and there will be check in points along the way to try both the letter and the spirit - of the law. Mr. Paul brings up some excellent points. We will look at that and consider if there are ways we can consider whether we can provide more reassurance than we already are and see if we are deliver all projects that have been promised to the voters within the appropriate caps andgiven these limitations that we have. Thank you for allowing me to say that.8:16 PMThank you.I understand the 25% limitation for the bart project and the measure and the three formula programs as well, is that right?That's correct. and every time we do a budget, we will do a true up of those allocations and make adjustments in case it's too high or lw, we will adjust it in the coming budgets.8:17 PMRight and we'll be able to modulate that and not just for the roadway but in pavement.Excuse me, I don't believe that is an accurate statement, Mr. Mayor.If you can finish.Maybe I will go bck. my understanding is that there is a certain allocation of roughly $40 million a year for roadway money. Is that right?Yes, there is a ercentage for the streets and roads.Right.Yes, and it's about 19% of the measure, and because that's going to beAn annual on going allocation is going to be a consistent true up and if it's high or low, we can address thatin the budget.8:18 PMSo if the sales tax looks like it's going to plummet, we would look at that in the two years as well.Right, that will be based off the lower base.Okay, i'm not sure why I said that was untrue, but that's what I understand. Thanks. Also, or those that are familiar with what the ridership estimates were for phases 1 and 2 of bart. As I recall, we went be through the process of the fta estimates of 999 riders, does someone happen to recall?Is anyone on staff who recalls? Recalls?8:19 PMI believe we have takis on the line.Yes. hang on.Okay. I heard the estimate 17,000, and i'm guessing that is a reference to a phase that is all constructed.That's not the phase we have before us.8:20 PMOkay. I wand to be clear on what we are voting on. I'm done.Thank you. member burt?Thanks. i'm following on the theme that joe and d'arcy have been touching on. I appreciate we need to have the commitment for the federal funding but we also need to be true to our commitment to our voters.And in a way, that's what I was getting at earlier in the evening when I was talking about scenario or contingent -- contingency planning and we do need to go through that exercise because we don't know whether all the bids are going to be within the budget and what other contingencies might arise. Also when we talk about these big buckets of what percentage of measure b goes to bart, what percentage goes to streets and roads, there is another bucket that is what percentage goes to caltrain grade separation andcaltrain modernization. And what I haven't seen yet s how we will set guidelines for hose important allocations, and I think that we need to go forward with framing that because frankly, what we are doing on the bart dollars is we are leveraging our local dollars for significantly high amount of dollars from other sources for instance federal. We are going through likely same scenarios on the grade separation hat willbe leveraged to complete the whole system. I think we need to think about doing that and May include in the guidelines not all for measure b but guidelines at a high level for how we address those caltrain relateddollars, and to use them to assure that we achieve congestion relief at the city level and within the county by achieving those grade separation that enable caltrain to have a significant expansion in mornings. So t's a systems approach and for congestion relief in the county and a local congestion relief at each of thecrossings that will be a grade that will eparate or close. I wanted to put that out. That's an issue that we have been putting out for the last for years and we have been standing to see and those to be codified in the other buckets specifically that one for the measure. Thanks.8:23 PMChair hendricks: next we'll go to member simitian and then member chavez.Forgive me, I think member chavez had her hand up.Okay, I just go by the way they show up in my queue.8:24 PMEither way.So let me just say I want to make a couple observations. I have the measure up n my screen which i'm sure a number of you do as well and just a couple things I want to chime in on. One is, pat, I think the point that you are raising about the grade separation is an interesting point to sort of discuss which is that the way I look at this is that the onlying way to determine whether or not not -- bart's percentage isaccurate is the two overall competing issues that is the total amount of revenues we'll bring in and the second part is the projects that are on the list. What we have listed out in the projects is we have theestimated amount of dollars for each of these projects, most of them, and in $2,017. My point there is that if we are going to look at new rules for how we are using the revenue, the way we do that is we have to get three fourths of the board to make a change to the ballot. The way we do that because if we look athow that impacts all funding categories because I don't think bart is the only funding category that we have to be concerned about and as it relates to the point about the different categories in funding is that there are many categories in funding and the challenge is managing the board's expectations and whatwas actually codified in writing and the further we get from the date of the election, the more challenging that becomes. So I think the point that you aised that I want to reinforce that I think is right is that as wemove board being able to codify the process is going to be incredibly important for those that come after us because we are part of a 30 year measure and I think he opportunity to dive into that but again o think critically about it because to be blunt, everybody here has a project or, not everybody, but most of us havean investment that we are mostly excited about that we want to protect and we have to be very frank with each other about ow best to do that in a way that codifies outcomes that are going to be good for the public long-term. So anyway, I just with a -- wanted to say that because as I was saying to Mr. Paul about the financing, there is language in there about how we should do the function. If we are going o change this, we should have more robust8:27 PMMember simitian? . -Thank you, I want to larify this issue about true up and what it does and doesn't apply to because what I said is not right. What I was talking about is the principles that are on the page that ms. Kelly walked us through. If ms. Kelly can go to the 2016 ten year program principles and I can ask a question about those bulleted points, that would help to clarify.Okay.Ms. kelly, as I look at the chart, it says at your third bullet, apply the percentage share to formula based programs on an annual basis. That's the three programs, yes?8:28 PMYes.Those are the ways they would be trued up as you described, yes inThey can all be trued up but those are the easy ones because every two years we'll do the two slides.But it says that if you apply that program on an annual basis. That's for those programs, yes?That is particularly for those programs, yes.So that principle doesn't apply to the other programs including san jose and silicon valley.Yes, the next principle would apply to those.That's my point, the next principal is basically not about applying it to the hare and not on an annual basis and says you want to apply the board selection criteria to the needed capacity based programs to projects included in the biennial budget but there is no reference there to those projects being accounted for ortrued up on an annual basis which leads me to believe hat is not in the plan or is that the plan and not in the principle?8:29 PMWhat will happen every 24 years is we will look at the total projections and will be taking into account even for those need based programs the percentages that were called out in the ballot measure. So e still, for instance, will be looking to have the caltrain grade separation at about 11% and still be looking at thosepercentages but it's not on an annual basis.Let me ask to put the cal tran aside and stay with the bart that we are discussing because that has the cap nd what we discussed earlier is presenting concern about whether or not it gobbles up the rest of the money quite frankly. My question is there a commitment or requirement that there will in fact be a true up every year or two. You just said a true up but it's not in the principal which is making me nervous.8:30 PMI understand. I get your point. Every two years there is a reestimate of revenues and reestimate of the total funds then that would be available within those percentages.Okay, let me ask my question very directly then. As it now, please correct me if I am wrong, as the principles now sand, there is no true up for bart to san jose, is that correct?I don't think it's in there or out of there. So I take your point.8:31 PMSo if it exist, where does it exist, anywhere in a vta document or in a policy?It exists in the first principle when we say it complies with the language in the ballot. The language in theballot had percentages of program tax revenues, so it included in that principle.Was the base scenario that laid out bart -- that was discussed back in november?Joe, you are going, we didn't hear you.I'm sorry, the question I had was that built into the the base scenario estimation that looked at that category. I don't think it was because I was wondering how does anyone know what 25% is that of anything because it seems what it bart.8:32 PMMy understanding was that it was based on the projected needs but still within the understanding of the 25% constraint.Well, if there is in fact a plan or willingness to make sure that that 25 bart cap is trued up every two years, can I sk that it be done in writing and a board document in April so you will guide it for are that in writing for the plan to us in ma I -- may.8:33 PMI think we can take those comments and verify in those principle principles that we have here.To the mayor, it says to the annual base and true up but nothing for the capacity program and bart to san jose. If that is something that folks are prepared to reduced to riding that will allow more comfort based on the description that you have given us. I would like to see that in april, Mr. Chair.Is that a comment to me?Know, i'm talking to the chairman. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.Okay, I see you have interrupted last time.8:34 PMOkay, let's be one at a time here.Chair hendricks.. what I would say here is the comment is pretty clear on the comment you made before, joe. Let's see if staff can work through that. I don't want to submit them for the April meeting, but it seems you are pretty clear on this before we vote on it. I assume that staff has taken your comment and what you are addressing but I don't want to commit to the April date.The only last comment I will make is I heard the mayor ask the question about would we be likely to get more money or less money if we were utting more money or less money up on the table. I think that's aperfectly good question, but to Mr. Lawson's point, whatever we are putting on the table has to meet in my opinion not just the spirit of the ballot measure, and I would love to get an analysis for the cost of phase 2and the ridership for phase 2. What I said earlier was look at the only thing we have done so far on bart, it was, past tense, a $2. 3 billion expenditure for 17,000 trips which is probably 8-9,000 people making a round trip out of ontra costa everyday and probably where we get the most congestion. To the mayor's point, looking at that prospect, i'm fine with that as well. Whoever is the right person on the staff, I will just ask my office to try to get the best -- estimate from staff as to the cost and the true up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I do want to ask, I don't want to wait until April to see whether or not that true up is reallythere on the program projects that are a need capacity base. How can we make sure that in fact that is something that is agendaized for discussion and possible action?8:36 PMI think my comment is it will probably be on the agenda with as much information we have that staff has available. I didn't want to commit them to having the final piece of information.And my request and forgive me for being so persistent on this and my request is that it not be just an information item and that we get told that we can't actually get told that we can't adopt this program. I want to be sure it's an actionable item in april. Different members May want to vote no or yes and sounds like it's understood and I wouldn't expect anybody to vote no, but I want to be sure that we can vote on it so we don't have a procedural problem that staff is sensitive to.8:37 PMWhat we will try to do is we'll bring the principles and along with the short version of the principles there is an attachment that further describes those and that's where we will work to put that language so that when you are approving the principles and the attachment that describes them, that's where it would be.Thank you.Member chavez?Thanks, I want to actually take a different task on the question. One is I think that one thing that is that I think I want to better understand from staff is what is the best approach to managing the cost of not just bart, but all the projects with the estimated $6. 3 billion that we anticipated over the 30 year life of themeasure. And the reason I am asking it that way is I do recognize that there are some programs and projects and investments particularly based on their size or based on their development that it would beeasier to determine overall cost and under what terms and conditions we would we going out for financing.So i'm not necessarily supportive of the two year measurement if that's not what works for a project this big. So i'm interested in more than one option to get at the fair complete implementation of the entire program. And including better understanding if the overall amount of $6. 3 billion in any given two years looks like it's shrinking. What are the implications that are in our program. And I don't know, kathleen, Iknow you weren't here the last time or even when we eveloped this project, but we did have some outside help in thow we were going to be doing these estimates back when we were createing the ballot measure and I just can't recall the partner organization that gave us insight to that, but if in fact it is beneficial to get the information from the folks that helped us do the estimates as to how to appropriately gauge theexpenditures, I think that will be helpful as well. I would just want staff to have the best thinking available to you in terms of what options you bring back to the board.8:40 PMYou might recall that when we had the option that was presented to you in January and was just lust # i-- illustrative and it will be an iterative process and we will be working with hem again.8:41 PMThank you.Okay, I think member chavez articulated it in a way that I have been trying to find a way and I would assume if all the money is down, it would affect all programs and you are going to come back to tell us.And one other, in the preliminary project area, the funding status, i'm assuming there is a question about the external funding stuff and that will be related about talking about the funds availability nd not talking about just measure b, is that correct?Yes, that's correct because all the projects will be leveraging the outside funding to a certain extent and we don't want to be allocating measure b funds if the matchings are not available.8:42 PMOkay, i'm not seeing anymore hands now and on my script agenda, 7. 6 is a discussion item and I think we achieved that result and that was a robust discussion and staff got lots of feedback and there is clearlymore information that we want to get in a timely manner before we go forward and do it in a way in a ind of procedural in terms of member simitian was concerned about and we will work to go ahead and do that.I'm not seeing any other questions. I'm going to end 7. 6 and move farther down our agenda. (verbal report)Thank you, chair hendricks. it's kind of hard to follow that last item e just had. Since the beginning of lastmonth, we've continued to see a decline in covid cases among vta employees and I wanted to just give you a bit of an update on the vaccination eligibility at this point. We continue to strongly advocate theprioritization of the transit workers of getting covid vaccines. We have been educating employees about the vaccine and seeing really strong interest among employees in getting those vaccines. In santa clara county17% overall have received the vaccine, 70% include those ages 65 and older an8:44 PMAnand the county making those available for those eligible to get the vaccine. The 40 foot and the 29 footbuses were accomplished March 2nd. I wanted to be clear that the 30 foot buses, the 29 foot buses, they currently have a plastic barrier right ow and what just came in is the prototype. So that was installed in march. We are going through testing and that's true the o & r body shop with a couple of the minor issues being addressed prior to being in the field. Once we accept the prototype and any issues that May come up, then production deliveries are expected to start May 19 and insulation is expected to be completed by the end of september. His prototype would be the permanent barriers and not the plastic ones. The statecould slip if significant changes are required to the prototype design and the bus fleet has already beencompleted. We are not just talking about the 29 foot buses. On February 8th, we increased service frequency on seven of our previous bus routes with the goal to decrease the number of passengers being passed up because of social distancing required on our buses. At the same time we increased thefrequency, we also reinstated rear door boarding and temporarily paused fare collection and we did notexperience the decrease in pass ups. In fact we saw a marked decrease in the number of passengers who were left at bus stops on these routes. For the week of February 1st, through the 7, before the addedfrequency, there were 160 pass upped with 390 persons affected and we had 281 pass ups with 711passengers pass ups and this was based on calls to the service field department. Based on the number of ridership, we saw more passengers on the buses in february. So last week, we published a map for our transit riders so they can easily figure out the best way to take transit to the county. So far there are 20 such lights throughout the county. You can see listed in the map legend. Of course hospitals are also providing the vaccines and those are normally listed object our - on our map and this is the list for those on our map and voting polls. We are pushing messaging out to this map to the public and social media and our social media and would recommend that you pass those along and there is a board on our website which you would copy and put on your communication platforms. On February 9th, levi stadium became the largest covid vaccine location in the state of california. Governor newsom was there to announce and providing 5,000 vaccines per day and this is on our transit map that you saw. As our light rail, orange and green line stop at the stadium. We are beginning to insert some of the lessons of the gear cohort from the past year into our everyday business. Gear stands for government alliance on race and equity which seeks to aid governmental agencies in leading with equity and inclusion in policies and procedures. As you know we have a eam from several different levels that participate in the gear cohort which was a year long training program and they are now working on using the less once we learned with equity in their work here at vta. We held two public meetings on the transient oriented development. One in english and spanish. Among things incorporate to explain the gear project in a more culturally competent equitable manner were one, and significant stakeholder engagement prior to the meeting to hiring local facilitators who had local presence, knowledge and trust. Three, having two separate meetings planned in primary language for english and spanish and olling and live reporting on ethnicity and race. And 5, on the tribe member, ohlone mutsun tribe member and equity and inclusion statement and meeting as a listeningversus telling exercise.8:50 PMNext we are going to have gary speak.Next slide. i'm going to talk about the zero emissions vehicles which is the vta's sustainability goals andthe vehicle code process is had egg -- helping to meet that endeavor and looking at new technologies and then we'll look at a couple projects quickly. The vehicle 2 grid project was led by the commission and by the partner. This roject is provided by new software and tools for operations necessary to seamlessly manage the fleet of electric vehicles. To show the scope of the complexity in the project, it required 14different partners all working together to create and develop the back end system for the electrical vehicles. To drive a little deeper into the project, first the core of the system was to manage the yard and the charging process. This was done with the charge point, energy management platform which by the way, used to be called -- shown at the center of the graphic. Key to the excessive solution, the energy management platform is integrated nto all the existing system sed by operation. Second, the keyaccomplishment was orking with clever devices to enhance their field tracking software by developing the electric vehicle monitoring system. Together, these systems provide a lower cost of energy by 25% or greater and provide dispatching and yard maintenance and driver and information with minimized vehicle performance. Mtc nitiated a grant and awarded a million dollars to investigate ow the disabled and elderly community would interact with the future of autonomous vehicles. Vta wants to partner with silicon valley, a non-profit, o help research and work on new accessibility tools. We partnered with local motors and av providers on the right to enter into this new vehicle. And with the project, va and palo alto and is a route that the av will be traveling in the next quarter. What makes the vta accessible av project unique, is one that the av partner who understand the value of accessibility, we partner with a local start-up smart ai on video analytics looking for mobility devices and monitoring passenger behavior and interacting with display and speech. The future and support of this is para transit and first and last mile trips. In 2020, vta partnered with cal start and wrta to further develop our ccessible automated shuttle. The total aim award was $2. 3 million with $1 million coming to vta's effort. This second vehicle will be a level four. The plan is to operate between the va complex, the road and the palo alto transit center and mountain view transitcenter. We need to be working with the local cities and cal trans regarding the routes and any signal communication just like the first av project will be expanding the accessibility functionality. Futureinnovations, the vta project will learn and -- sorry, ext slide. So, in future innovation, the vta project will learn a lot about what it takes to charge and manage the bus infrastructure. So with that, we reengineered and thought about how we expand the infrastructure like the next 34 buses instead of having one charger for every vehicle, we are going into an example with one extremely large charger that can connect to 20vehicles at the same time and manipulate the amount of power to each vehicle charged with the task and we are looking at solar energy creation as well as adding four megawatts of battery power to be able to store that energy and use it later in the day when the electric vehicles need that power. All aroundreducing, the whole idea is to reduce greenhouse gasses and restoring the energy. The last project we are working on is from a professor from uc davis where we are trying to electoral college thermal energy in a way to # th with this thermal electrical energy.8:57 PMAt this point, we are seeing if there are any questions from my colleagues. Any members have any questions? Member burt?Yeah, o this last part, i'm curious your pursuing an unproven, although it might be advantageous energy generation and storage technology as opposed to focusing on the autonomous vehicle part and then I have another question I will just throw it out there. On the route that you have within the va and the ntendedroutes that you are talking about to caltrain, are you intended to incorporate fixed location sensors and integrate them with the sensors on the vehicle or only mobile sensors?8:58 PMI think from my communication perspective on the vehicle, is our intent to talk to signal lights as well as to see how well that we can map the area to on the routes. So a lot of that will depend on which vendor weselect for that particular vehicle. So the rfp for the second vehicle for the grant go out around the 15 of march. If you look at the different companies providing the autonomous vehicles, each one has a slightly different version or way to actually guarantee that the vehicle knows where it is and stays on track. And then to your other question, as far as the thermal energy goes, actually most of these pieces of the, like the picture of the thermal energy generation on the left is actually stockton. They are using biothermal energy to generate and drive those generators. So in reality, there are a few minor things and this takes the whole thing and builds it together, but it's really taking known pieces of technology and putting them together and probably the most riskyist part of that technology would be the portable thermal tanks thatwould actually store the thermal energy and would get trucked to vta and then get connected and used.8:59 PMWell, the thermal energy storage is moderately established, not quite and certainly a lot less establishedthan the rapid growth we have in a whole range of other energy storage and principally different battery storage technologies. So I have reservations about adding another layer of uncertainty as much as I am very enthused about this and I don't get why we would add another level of certainty with -- unproventechnology.That's looking at the bay side of the unproven technology. We are still at the investigation phase of what we are doing here and looking at how they are developing this and deploying it in other locations around the world.I will just add that i'm struck by this approach that May prove out to be a really successful one, but it's a real contrast to what I and others on the board thought was perhaps an overly cautious approach to anumber f next gen technologies for the transportation system, the rapid transit and a few others that we reviewed a few weeks ao. I will still put it out there that I ind this a strong contrast to the much morecautious approach than those other technologies.All of those other technologies require nergy and that's what we are trying to do is generate energy. But it's a good point.We are not in the energy generation business, we are in the transportation business and you are entering us into the the energy generation business and that's my issue. The energy generation business that is notwidely adopted.That would be true.Member chavez?Thank you. gary, can you talk about your reflection on why that is?We are putting o put a four mega att battery which is only four megawatts which would be basically enough to carry 34 vehicles for two-thirds of a day versus rying to put n place the equivalent of 30 or 40megawatts as an example in battery technology would be a pretty large installation and would be very extremely costly. So I think what we are trying to come up with and as well as as alternative because we are looking to doing basically solar as well as battery storage, as well as thermal energy. So eh what we are looking for is a way of having multiple technologies that provide us more cover all the different scenarios that might happen.Thank you.> of course all of them are clean energy.I think actually one of the -- I appreciate the question that pat is asking in terms of how you mitigate and measure risk and innovation like what that balance is. I really believe that part of the role of our transit agencies, we are not in the necessarily in the energy business, but we are certainly in the climate business. And that's the balance i'm trying to measure based on what you just said. Thank you for are # --that.The deal i'm working with them on, vta would put up no dollars. It would all be done on ppa and we would buy the power from them generating the power. We would actually not own it or operate it.Thank you.Chair hendricks.. okay, is there the next part of the gm's report.There isn't but I also noticed that board member liccardo's hand is up.Thanks, just a real quick question. Assuming that the ppa would come back for approval and cost for that is super relevant.Ys, we would definitely bring that back to the board.Before we bring that back to the board, can we check with maybe or activities on this area.It would definitely go to the cmpp because all the energy projects go there first, but we can look at what it would do with som of those other things.Thank you.> okay. we have 8.1a.Yes, it is the government affairs update. A written report was provided to the board members and is included in the online agenda packet. And jim, external affairs will provide a brief update.Thank you, evelyn and very quickly because things have been breaking and I want to provide the board information on the covid allocations and they appropriated $900 million of covid relief. Of interest to us is that $900 million that came to the bay area and being disbursed by mtc. Mtc did the first disbursal # -- of $500 million and tried to balance against these limited resources. So what they did was come up with a formula based on the 2018 budget and factored in the money given in the last cares act a minimum of the 5% of the operating budget and a percentage of the ridership that was carried. It generated a lot of concern among the other transit agencies in the area for this reason. Several of them are facing serious financial consequences before the end of this fiscal year and we understand and appreciate that and tried to work cooperatively ith them. At this point we are all in agreement that the amount of funding that will be coming to vta should be $40 million roughly. That in addition o the cares act money that we received and will help us with the financial issues that you have seen previously. The mtc's program and allocations committee will discuss this in their meeting on March 10th and we are told that staff's recommendation will be what I have described to you at this point. It will then go to the commission for final approval and we anticipate that we should be receiving the money shortly thereafter and it will be used to support vta and our operations through the following fiscal year. I will be happy o answer any questions.Chair hendricks: before we go to any questions on that, I will go to public comment on 8. 1 and a. I see four people in the queue right now.That's correct.First roland followed by eugene and followed by blair. Roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have seen the reports and the $90 million case report to mtc. The bureau transit center and member burt pointed out and transporting people and not dealing withhousing issues. I have a pra on the way talking about $3. 2 million and right now looking at excess of 3. 5.The last comment I would like to make is the members of the public you will expect members of the public to wait until now to spend one minute to give you comments on items not on the agenda. I don't think that's reasonable, thank you and good night.Next, eugene. you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: good evening, once again, board members, echoing Mr. Lebron's comment t 9:00 p. M. And especially those seniors having to go to bed socommenting make it impossible. Anyway to add on, given the second incident in santa clara, what are you doing with that which is a concern. What happened with the buses is a message that the buses are noteven safe. We need to know what vta is doing to better secure buses and light rail and transit facilities especially during covid. Thank you.Next, blair. you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: it will be important to know how toprioritize av study along with questions and practices. Meanwhile, a fleet of electric vehicles and charging stations has been in place for the past several years and should be prioritized at the top of importance by 2025 and how it could very much help address green sustainability needs for the future and community. I hope these issues can be brought up to the root committee as well. With 30 seconds left for an openprocess, the future of the 85 committee. To mention, the storage thermal storage issues. Is there going to be diesel vehicles used to transport it or will three about electric vehicles and is that dangerous.Our last public speaker will be john. You May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: good evening,everybody. My name is john courtney, president of the atu local 625. I would just first of all like to thank interim general manager for her efforts in keeping us all safe. She's made a real conservative effort and an amazing fresh air. Thank you. Regarding the autonomous driver less vehicles. We know there is only one reason for having this is to get rid of the people and those people happen to be your constituents on the board or citizens who live in the neighborhoods with families hat vote. You are basically getting rid of workers and middle-class families from jobs because it's a cat looking fter a laser. There is really no other purpose for a driver less vehicle except for that. They are not safer, they are not more productive. It's just to get rid of jobs. Thank you, have a good night.Okay, I think that's the last of our public speakers. Are there any final comments on the general manager's report? I'm not seeing anything. So, evelyn, thanks for all of that information.Actually, Mr. Chairman, if I may, I need to note that the security statistics and the preliminary ridershipinformation are all on the online packet.Okay.Thanks for your report. i'm going to move on to 8. 2The chairperson's report and for this I would like to update you on the agreement that's going on as a reminder to our eployees, we are going into the final week of our second voting period that ends next Tuesday in the evening. As of Monday March 1st, we have 78% participation for the atu pension plan and 90% for the calpers. I want to point out, that's where we are able to see who has turned in an envelope.We don't know how they voted. It's just whose voted. Our union partners are calling those individuals who have not voted and I want to thank them for this process. Voting ends tuesday, March 9th. Voting will be counted Wednesday March 10th and should have preliminary results shortly thereafter. The vote outcome will be announced as preliminary because the social security administrators have to verify the vote and then afterwards will be completed to the social security administration for sign off. The sign off process canunfortunately take to about a year. Retirement group and we are hoping that this is the path we are on.There will be no social security benefit interruption. That concludes my report. 8. 3. Are there any items ofconcern or referral to the administration? I'm not seeing anybody raise their hands. Are there any announcements? Okay, with that, we are going to be moving to our closed session. We have an action item so I really eed everybody to go to the closed session. To my board members, colleagues, closed session teams link is available. Please make sure you mute your microphones during the closed session. Please do not log off your zoom so we can quickly return to this meeting after the closed session to give our results.So if no one has any questions about that, we are going to go ahead and going to adjourn now to the closedRecording was PausedRecording was PausedSession part of the meeting. I look forward to seeing all of my colleagues there.>So we are 9.2, reconvening back to open session. We are goes to close our report. Is it carlos who is going to give the read out on 9. 1a.For 9.1a the board took no action.Thank you. and I will give a report for 9. 1b and there is no actionable item. Now we are moving to adjournment. As I said at the beginning, i'm going to go ahead and close the meeting in memory of ta mechanic john finister. If we can have a moment of silence and then we'll adjourn. ( moment of silence )And thank you, everyone. that's the end of onight's meeting. We'll end at 10:02 p. M. .