Please stand by... for the santa clara valley transportation authorityBoard of directorsMeeting.Good evening, everyone, as we begin recording, i'm also going to begin our meeting. This is the vta board of directors of September 3rd, I would like to call this meeting to order. . I would like to thank you all for attending our meeting tonight. I will ask is that you undue your mic and we'll o roll call.5:31 PMClerk: bruins, carr, carrasco, courts, david, diep, ellenberg, jones, kniss, liccardo, mcallister, miller, nu? Ez,o'neill, peralez, rennie, okay, I will come back to you. Hendricks, cavez.Here.We have a quorum, madam chair.Thank you. was there any member whose name was called that maybe didn't get to speak in time?No? everybody is here, all right.5:32 PMI'm oing ask --Cindy, really quickly with rennie shows up, I will bow out, but if he doesn't show, i'm here.Great. thank you.I will ask you to stand and glen will lead us in the pledge of flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.Thank you all very much. i'm now moving to the orders of the day. 1. 3. Staff is requesting that we hear regular agenda item 7. 2, and 7. 3, the bart phase 2 project funding development and implementationtogether. And staff is also requesting hat we defer item 7. 4, and this is an exclusive negotiating agreement for the property. Any changes from my colleagues, any further changes? You could raise your hand. Seeing none, I will ask for a motion -- do I need a motion for orders of the day?5:33 PMYes, madam chair, because we are making changes to the agenda.All right. so i'm now going to request a motion.So moved, liccardo.Second, carr.Glen, did you want to speak to the motion?I was going to make the motion. I was trying to use the hand.Great. there you go, glen. we have public speakers, but i'm not sure that the public speakers are here to speak on orders of the day or on public comment. If you are ere to speak on orders of the day, then please do. If it's public comment, I would ask that you wait. And i'm not sure how to do that exactly, but let's goforward.5:34 PMThank you, madam chair. I would also like to let everyone know that we did receive ublic comment from roland lebron which is in the packet. We currently have ten speakers. The first three speaksers will beangelina, tanisha and rland. Angelina, i'm going to unmute you. Please speak whenever you are ready.Public speaker: hello?5:35 PMLease go on.> i'm going to ask if I can also be made a cohost?Yes.Thank you.I'm going back to the speakers for just a moment. Thank you.5:36 PMAll right.You're welcome.Our next speaker is tanisha. public speaker: hello,Can you hear me?Yes.I am requesting that the --We'll go on to our next speaker.Our next speaker is roland. I will umute you.Madam chair, this is a follow-up to my letter. In the interest of time, i'm respectfully requesting that youmove item 2. 2 to onsent and I would appreciate if you could leave my comment o one minute. Thank you.5:37 PMThank you.Next three speakers, emily, jordan, and jaden. Public speaker: hello. I have a question if that's okay.Yes, go ahead.> I apologize, madam chair, but that was a scam.Here is what i'm going to do. we are going to try a couple more and if they all end up like this, we'll put public comment at a later time under agenda item 3. I'm going to say this to everybody that's on the phone right now. If you are speaking to item 1. 3, orders of the day, please stay on the call, if you are not, then please wait and come back to item 3. All right. Our next speaker.5:38 PMClerk: our next speaker is emily. I will unmute you. Accept the unmute and please begin speaking when you are ready.All right. well, I think we are going to end public comment and move it over to item 3 for those who want to stay with us.Madam chair, this is elaine. i'm going to lower all hands right now.Okay. I have a motion and second. Roll call please.Motion by liccardo, second by carr.5:39 PMCarr, aye, cortese, aye, diep, aye, liccardo, aye, mcallister, yes, nu? Ez, yes, peralez, aye, rennie, aye,hendricks, yes, chavez, yes.Back to member carrasco. I think she's absent. The motion passed.Thank you. we are going to item 2. 1. 2. 1. Action item - adopt a retirement commendation recognizing gary barretto, transit foreperson, for 41 years of service and shirley rayford, coach operator, for 29 years of service. # shirley, she's committed to 15 years of driving safety and over 1 million miles operator safetyaward. Shirley is in the teleconference with us. Shirley, I want to say a very special thank you for your 29 years of service. Let's give shirley a very warm round of applause. Thank you very much.5:40 PMShirley, did you want to say something?No.Okay. very well job done. And we have gary barretto for 41 years. I would like to thank him so much for working with us for all of those years. Resolution of commendation giving special tribute, due honor & recognition to carl guardino. We are going to start by moving item 2. 2.5:41 PMI will make that motion.A motion and second by glen and second by gary. We are going to roll call and then to the resolution.Clerk: this is for item 2.2, motion by hendricks, second by carr. Carr, aye, cortese, aye, diep, aye, jones, aye, liccardo, aye, mcallister, yes, nu? Ez, yes,Peralez, yes, rennie, yes, hendricks, absolutely yes, chavez, yes, of course.5:42 PMMotion passed. thank you.Thank you very much. and i'm going to just read a little bit of the resolution, and i'm really excited that carl is here with us today. He's taken a break from working on a campaign, I know. I'm really grateful to you and why you are whole family for sharing so much of your time with us. This resolution by the board ofdirectors of the santa clara valley transportation authority the commending you. Whereas carl guardino worked for almost 24 years, he was a dedicated and tireless advocate for local transportation funding from 1996 measures a and b, 2008 and 2006 measure b and the ninth county regional 3 measure in 2018. And whereas carl guardino, his participation is critical to creating new major funding sources for the capital cost of vta's bart extension as well as construction to the bart regional connector light rail extension and caltrain and great span and many other mobility improvements. And whereas throughout carl guardino'stenure, he worked on the bart extension and stevens creek, u. S. 101, capital yb avenue and u. S. 101, sr.237 and u. S. 101 and the u. S. 101 expresslanes, the bus route transit project, the design of u. S. 101, sr 25 improvement and the willow complete streets in san jose and the bike way project. Now, therefore be it resolved that valley transportation authority expresses its sincerest appreciation for improving thetransportation in santa clara county and across the state of california. Be it resolved that this is presented with the thanks and wishes of the vta adopted by the vta board of directors this thursday, September 3, 2020. Carl, thank you for your dedication and commitment and for transportation and housing and higher education and who knows what else. We are delighted that you have contributed so much and to so many.Before you go, we have a video.5:46 PM( video)You guys.So with that, carl, i'm going to let you say a few words, and then I know we have some colleagues who would like to say a few words.So, carl, do you want to go ahead and start?Chair chavez and members of the vta board and staff and community colleagues. Leslie and I are just so humbled by the opportunity you've afforded us to play a small role and better valley for everyone. Thesecampaigns remind me that pioneers don't have maps. We forged the trail hat hopefully others can follow by working together and lifting each other up. Each of those campaign experiences that so many of usworked on together are precious memories that will building better paths forward for everyone that lives in our region. I can't thank you enough chair chavez for all of those campaigns together. Mayor liccardo for so many victories together nd mayor bruins, general manager fernandez for the professionalism and thepassion that you and your team bring to every aspect of your work for the public. It's truly a delight to ork with each of you and for each of you in this endeavor to improve our valley's environment and its economy, and its equity and inclusivity. I even think roland lebron will be glad that I only poke for 60seconds. Thank you all.5:48 PMThank you, carl. i'm now going to see if any of my colleagues would like to weigh in. If you can use yourblue hand and then I will go to the public. I will start with supervisor cortese.Carl and leslie, you are a team. Great to see you. Congratulations, best of luck in all of your future endeavors which we all know already began. But I do ant to go back and further punctuate the point youmade about being a pioneer because some of us were around, I think there are a few of s here tonight when that decision had to be made to vote on a measure because the votes weren't there by the boards, not this board of supervisors, but the votes weren't there at the time for the boards to do a so-called ab measure and it seemed like no big deal and the board can do a super majority and nobody thought it was 3 possible to do that and I remember the mayor said we can try that, but the likelihood of success was almost no and then you came to run the campaign and to be the pioneer ear that you've been. I think after that, if you don't mind me putting it in very simple terms, your stamina, your stick to it ivness and it seemed that carl guardino was never going to quit and it took a few decades to get it to santa clara county.Thank you. Your effort speaks for itself. It's not something that can be done in 60 seconds nor 120seconds. But history will be very kind to you nd appropriately so. Thank you so much.5:51 PMSupervisor cortese, thank you for your leadership and your friendship. I really appreciate it.Any other colleagues ould like to say a word or two? Jeannie?Thank you, chair. carl, you have been a highlight at my getting involved at the regional level. I'm alwaysimpressed with your boundless energy, your can o and will do attitude. And even your corny little isms that you do whether it's chocolate and peanut burt or the cookies, but you always have an incredible way ofcaptureing everybody's attention. My greatest pleasure is to have crossed paths with you and your lovely wife leslie. Best to the both of you.Sam?5:52 PMThank you. I certainly said a lot about carl and I will try to keep it to roland's 60 seconds or less. I think uring this time what is so very divisive as carl has worked so hard to bring people together who didn'tnecessarily always play well together. Carl always managed to find what was most important for everyone to accomplish together. And i'm just so grateful for the way he built bridges, particularly among all of uselected officials. This is not an easy sandbox to play in and carl was always committed to making sure that people felt like they had an important role to play in doing something important. For that, I was willing to put up with all of those years of bad, bad jokes, thank you.Thank you, mayor.Rob?Thank you chair, and thank you carl. You really made a difference in our valley. I know a lot of those measures would not have been brought home without you. I know you work extremely hard and thank you, leslie, for letting him work so hard, but I also think there is a certain magic to making it happen, sam.You brought people together and your use of technology and the survey, there is some kind of magic in there that I think you have that other people will really struggle to put together and replicate. So I don't think it's just hard work. Thank you for that. But also thank you for the magic. And the thing I remember was when you handed out the little jars of gentleman many that said traffic jam n them. That's my littlememory. Again, carl, thank you for making a huge difference in this valley that would not have happened.5:54 PMThank you.Larry?Thanks, cindy, I just want to add my quick $0. 02 too. One of the things I have learned from carl over the years is just his focus on the success of the region is all of our success. That as a city council member, it's important for me to sort of drop my parochial tendencies because what's good for the region is good for all of our cities in our entire area. With that being said, as a south county representative, I want to claim carl a little bit as well. He started his public service in south county and I was reminded by rusty reyes that theinterchange that we have today was brought by carl when he was working on it before. We are deeply in debted to carl for this. Thank you, carl, and thank you eslie for sharing him with us.5:55 PMThank you to my colleagues. we have a few public speakers.Okay, it looks like we have four speakers.Sore about that. we have roland.Thank you, madam chair. for the record, I always got along superbly with carl. There have never been any problems. But I want to reflect on what happened to measure a because 20 years later and $3. 5 million later. Santa clara valley with 3 miles of track and we no longer have the funds to run caltrain. 14 years later, carl tried to pull the same stunt with the 2014 measure b. Then we came up with the 2016 measure b that actually makes sense. In closing, carl, the next step is, I wish you he best of luck, as long as it's not in the vta's backyard. Thank you.5:57 PMOur next speaker will be michael. I will unmute you. Please begin to speak whenever you are ready. Public speaker: hi, carl, chair, mike every here. I want to thank you. I can't think of anyone outside the greatsecretary and former congressman who has delivered more for santa clara county and who is morededicated for san jose in your leadership over the years. I have enjoyed your work now and for the future.I want to thank you for your hard work in this area. Congratulations to you. I hope your next endeavor is as successful as the one that you have done. Congratulations.5:58 PMThank you, michael. brian, i'm going to unmute you. Go ahead and speak when you are ready. Public speaker: all right. For the record, my name is brian. I would like to thank the vta for allowing me to do public comment. I'm asking you to vote aye on the agenda item -- that is going to help us fund taxes by which the vta an monetize bus and light rail stops. I acknowledge the controversy when accepting corporate sponsors, but I think that this concern is somewhat small when it comes to the importance of light rail and busses. Climate change for force cars off the road and improves traffic. It's also an incrediblyimportant pilar of economic mobility which allows people to improve their own lives for their own actions.Thank you so much, vote aye on 7. 5.5:59 PMI'm just going to remind our speakers that we are actually on item 2. 1, i'm sorry, item 2. 2.Thank you. our last two speakers are alex followed by edina. Public speaker: good evening, this is alex shore, speaking personally, not on behalf of any organization for which I work or commission for which I sit. I think few people have done more outside of government for government service than carl guardino, and i'm so grateful for what you have done carl, for so long. I appreciate the deep partnership you've built with important government agencies like vta and bart over the years to provide better transit service for our community and wish you all the best. Thank you so much or everything you have done for our community. Working across divides to get stuff done has been really really essential. And that makessomeone that many of us in the community look up to as we try to improve things for the better following your nd vta's legacy. Thank you.6:00 PMThank you, alex. addena, i'm going to unmute you. Public speaker: good evening, board members, edina levin with caltrain.You muted yourself.All right. wanting to express thanks to carl gardino, for his energy and relentless pursuit of funding and support for public transportation in silicon valley and pursuit of infrastructure and the betterment of siliconvalley, that level of energy will leave very large holes to fill. Thank you.6:01 PMThank you. I want to thank the public speakers and ask nuria, our general manager to have the second to the last word.Thank you very much, adam chair, everything has been said but not all have said it. I want to thank carl guardino, I have worked in several parts of this country and never encountered anyone as dedicated toinfrastructure that was not in the infrastructure business. So thank you for recognizing the significance of having a good transportation network. Not only the economic prosperity of a region or a place, but to theability of people to get to the things that they need to get to. Because we are in the people moving business and you have been an extraordinary partner in helping us locally and at the federal level. We will miss you in that derek # -- direct role but we know we can always call upon you. Those are the mostimportant words of the english language. Thank you.6:02 PMI'm just going to alert public speakers if you want to speak on item 3, public comment, this is the time to raise your hand and sign in. Carl, we are going to play the video one more time as we are waiting for speakers. But I want to on behalf of my colleagues, say a very special thank you to you and to leslie. I want to reiterate something that sam said and also gave, and that is I think that one of the most important haracteristics of a leader is the ability to collaborate and it very difficult to do and it takes a lot of time. I don't remember anyone in the valle where I have had late night e-mails and then as if you didn't sleep, they came again. I think your work ethic and willing to sit down and letting everybody telling you their story and you were able to implement through many campaigns and even through the turkey tribe. If you think about all the work that you have done. That single event that you and leslie brought together bringsmore people in our community to do good and this any other event. That is really reflective of both of you.Thank you for your service, and I think they are going to play you out on this with music this time. I wasgoing to call on sam to see if he can sing, but maybe it's better to see if the staff music works.6:05 PMThank you.Thank you so much. we are so blessed to have each of you in our lives. Just humbled. Thank you.You have two surprises but you have to wait until they arrive at your house.They did come. did you want us to show them is thisGo ahead.This one is a bobblehead bicyclist with a vta shirt.6:06 PMThis is scary. it's so life like.It is. and the second is this beautiful resolution that president chavez read earlier. Thank you so much.That's our four-year-old in the background. This is a beautiful guardino station sign. My four-year-old who loves trains would love to see up somewhere. This means a lot to jacob zachary.Thanks again, carl.Thank you so much. we love you all.We are now moving to item 3. [ applause ] item 3 is public comment. I'm going to ask those who want tospeak to an item that is not on the agenda, if you speak on an item that is on the agenda, i'm going to ask hat you only do it once for that particular item. We'll invite our public speakers.6:07 PMThank you. it looks like we have two speakers. I will mention that we have public comment from Mr. Lebron and I have posted it on the web. The first speaker is blair. Public speaker: all right. Thank you. The vta has started their vehicle project again and they are getting help and guidance from the vta at thistime. I wanted to thank the vta that a couple years ago in 2018, they talked about uses and practices and possible economic disruption process that I think really prepared all of us for kind of what we are going tothrough right now. I just really wanted to thank you for that sort of work and preparedness for all of us.And I hope with government and community we work to do those projects again in the future with those kind of understanding. I really want to remind yourselves of the importance of the shots fired technology t the new bart station in san jose has to be a question, thank you.6:08 PMThank you. next, we have roland. Please begin when you are ready. Public speaker: thanks again for the opportunity, madam chair. I would like to echo my comments that has to do with the governance issue. On the governance issues, it's very difficult for the public to provide timely written comment and the material to take it down which is not on the website at least 24 hours before being present to the board. I guess toboard members it doesn't matter because all you have to do is to wait for a briefing call from Mr. Wilson.for measure a, our ceo is refusing and that's what taxpayers voted for in santa clara county 20 years ago.Today i'm requesting that vta legal counsel to provide such an opinion one way or the other, thank yu.6:10 PMWe have two more speakers.Thank you,alita for the record. My pronounce are he and her. Due to the transportation commission, I feel it's very important for this agency to get started with clipper start that helps with transit equity and makes transit more affordable. Vta is happy to have nuria executive board. She has this - very broad and globalperspective on clipper and on general leadership. I was watching some video of grand central terminal and thought about nuria's tenure in new york which reminded me of the great ride 1, 2, 3 fast rides. So listen to nuria. She has a lot of good things to say. Thank you.6:11 PMThank you.Our final speaker will be jj. please accept the unmute and begin peaking when you are ready.Public speaker: hello?You can move on.Thank you.Thanks very much. i'm now going to move onto item 4. We have no public hearing. That moves us to item 5. That is the citizens advisory chairperson's report. 5. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter)6:12 PMWelcome, marty.Thank you. i'm trying to undundo my video.Good evening member chavez and members of the board. At ur august 12th meeting, the meet conducted the required public hearing for the 2000 measure a revenue spending for fiscal year 2019. The cac will evaluate the information and combined it with other information, eports and data including input from thepublic hearing, to render a conclusion on the 2000 measure a expenditures were spent according to the ballot. In other business, the cac had a robust discussion on tonight's board agenda on 2016 bicycle plan.The committee recommended this item for approval which changes the point of distribution to criteria 1, 3,5. And the summary of the comments is noted on the memo in your packet. And that actually concludes my report. Any questions?6:13 PMThank you. are there any questions from my colleagues?Seeing none, we have one public comment on item 5. 1.Clerk: roland, I will unmute you. Speak when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, madam chair. I appreciate the report for 2000 measure a proceedings. Sometime in the future. First I would like to bring to your atention, this report pertains to 2019. It's unclear that is so old and what happens to measure a.Other thing, you can't see reporting back on what happened to measure a on the 17 workshop meeting. So that we can reflect and take appropriate decisions moving forward as to how we are going to be able to continue providing basic transportation services in santa clara county. Thank you.6:14 PMThank you. (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (constantine) is it report is available in your packet.Chairpersons' report. (verbal report) they met on the audit and government board enhancement item. The other committee chair reports are available on the online packet. Blair, would you like to speak to this item?6:15 PMPublic speaker: I wrote a speech about governance issues into the 2021. It's going to be a tough fall for the vta. You are going to have a bunch of decisions to make. I hope be open to all budget decision ideas. I hope that will really include no fair transit ridership ideas. The work at the state level and the federal level, I think really has to be reexamined at this time and we are going to be in a two year period with covid issues. I hope we can really respect what's being worked on at the state level with the house and tenantowner forgiveness has been done with incredible work in the bay area. There is an open-mindedness and good thinking and could help the ridership and with many budget ideas this fall. Hank you.6:16 PMThank you, roland, accept the unmute and begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you and very briefly, an apology with those at the -- the meeting started inappropriately basically asking for a half million dollars worth of services. I really appreciate chavez actually, reacting to what happened and making sure this doesn't happen again whereby these kinds of requests should be going to vta saff, will analyze them and present them back to the board accordingly. Thank you.6:17 PM> we'll move to item 5.3. 5. 4.Great. chairpersons' report. (verbal report) in the packet and I believe the chair, mcallister, is going to say a few words.Thank you. I just want to put a little context to this report. It pretty much sums up what we did. But what it did multi-years, this actually started in 2015 with measure b and we have to thank carl. Carl had his fingers or this project too because it was negotiated between the corridor of people on 85 and carl was able to bring everybody to collaborate and arrange some funding for this particular road to take care of the congestion along 85. It's amazing where his influence came. The board, the memo says that we did come to a conclusion and a final recommendation. We feel it is the most efficient, economical cost wise and in the spirit of measure b about making this a transit corridor. We came to the conclusion that we agreednationally that we wanted to dedicate a transit lane through there and that would allow for current technology, future technology, public private partnerships, everything that could come down the pike, butthis would be very flexible use, definitely would be involved having public transit down this line. So I just want to thank staff for five years, multiple people have come and gone on this, some of you are on theboard right now. So everybody had quite a bit of influence over the years, and the last group of board members came to it. Thanks to everybody that were involved in this. You will see me champion this through the cmpp, you will see me October 1st talking about this and how it could be successful. We were having a board meetings about innovation and how it could be innovative and how we can use this transit lane and i'm very excited that we can use this lane and very grateful to the committee, especially glenhendricks, he ummed it up very beautiful and I couldn't have done a better job and his description was accurate and great going forward. That's all I have.6:20 PMThank you. we have three speakers on this item.Speakers are blair, eugene and roland. Please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board members,Can you hear me?Yes.Thank you eugene bradly, founder and ceo of transit users. This is great for the new silicon valley highway on the west side. One concern has come up and that is there is supposed to be a bike way that is supposed to be in several nearby areas in particular areas in downtown that has a minority population that is not being properly addressed. Myself and a colleague addressed this as part of mc resolution and we have not gotten a response on this concern and we have this public transit and even for the private vehicles. We are leaving out more of these minority communities at a time when there could be a lot of customerscustomers. Thank you.6:21 PMThank you. blair? Public blair, accept the unmute and begin peaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, I would like to note that I think in the past month there has been funding within the vta of superhighway bicycle and pedestrian projects, maybe that can tie in to with what the previous speaker is trying to ask about. For this item, I want to quickly offer that in all the budget issues of funding this fall, good luck to trying to keep to new standards about the deal. I know in your highway work is an important concept to the vta. I feel it's very much tied into your revenue sources. I know that you are considering how to be more, I don't know, conservative about the use of highway projects, and that has to be an important concept for ourselves, I feel and good luck in those efforts and with this item. Thank you.6:22 PMThank you. roland, fbegin speaking when you are ready.6:23 PMPublic speaker: thank you, very briefly, with a comment matde by other speakers, when I look at this, there is nothing that says that cupertino should be the last -- and if anybody wishes to thank roland for his funding for highway 85, I would personally not hold t against you. Thank you.Thank you, roland. we do have one more speaker. Phone number ending in 9 -- 86353.Unmute yourself. go ahead.6:24 PMPublic speaker: hello, this is john, vice-president -- I had one topic to discuss with the board. I just wanted to make them aware that our members are not getting hard copies of the pay checks. So this is a bigtopic. They are trying to -- vta is trying o force them into getting online copies of their pay checks. We have many members that aren't able to get online copies. They need hard copies. They were able to get copies, I want to make sure they are able to get these. Please address this issue. Thank you.6:25 PMAll right. i'm moving on to the consent calendar. That will take us from item 6. 1 to 6. 5. If members want to address an item, this is the time to raise your hand. I'm going to make a brief comment and then i'm going to ask for a motion. And before we, we'll ask for a motion, we'll go public comment and then comeback to the board.Thank you. noting for the official record on behalf of board member chavez and cortese that they serve onthe county board of supervisors and ta board and therefore under government code section they have no interest in the contract and not required to recuse themselves from that item.Thank you.Thank you very much. i'm going to the public and then back to the board.6:26 PMThank you, chair. I would also like to note that we did receive public comment from Mr. Mark antonio on 6.9 and that is on the website. We have two speakers. Eugene, accept the unmute and speak when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, this is eugene with the silicon valley transit users. A quick commentregarding item 6. 2. Would vta, as the only supplier for the own bart cars. I recognize that this is only in liver moore. I would suggest that you get it from other manufactures to help with cost. That's something toconsider. Also, can I make a quick comment on 6. 9, if not, I can wait.6:27 PMGo ahead. it's on consent.My comment on 6.9, the biggest thing with the bay area transit plan, they recommend 6 feet for separation for people. The law says six feet. I know there is a conflict with the world health organization and cdc on this. And his states that you must obey a local ordinance. That is six feet.Thank you.Blair and then roland.Bair, i'm unmuting you. speak when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, to speak on item 6. 3. It's housing issue and vta's involvement in housing development. This is an interesting item for me and i'm interested in seeing this practice with precovid. And precovid practices, I think it was a real ground as well towards ideas of what is mixed use income and housing and part of medium housing and how can that be part of our regular vocabulary as we talk about projects in these communities and how can that language be more regular. So you are doing a lot of work and effort and I know leadership groups as well. Good luck in how to continue good ractices which started precovid-19. Thank you.6:28 PMMonica, i'm going to unmute you. Accept the unmute and begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, my name is monica, i'm speaking on item 6. 9 which is the healthy transit plan resolution. I really want to thank you all for doing everything you did to help protect us like implementing on boarding and enhanced cleaning and recently leading the bay area by providing hand sanitizer on board. This resolution is a good first step which is also important for vta to create a new implementation plan and haveit adopted by the board. The mtc plan is still vague and not consistent with county public health orders here and would encourage you to use cares act funding for health and safety. Thank you.6:29 PMThank you, monica. i'm going unmute you. Please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. I would like to comment on what eugene said. The board took an hour-and-a-half, every singleunion was protesting and they said they would shutdown the whole system and hold every vta union representative. I don't know why that's on consent today. The other thing I want to bring to your attention, is the two day chronicle, bart started providing testing and now find that 11% of latinos are infected with covid versus 9% of the rest of the population. And trying to get eople to get onto that system for distanceing is not responsible but criminal.6:30 PMThank you.Madam chair, we have two more people willing to speak. Would you allow them to speak.6:31 PMThank you, we are going to take two on this item.Thank you. I will unmute you. please accept he unmute and begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker:Are you able to accept the unmute? go ahead. Public speaker: sorry, I thought I clicked and it didn't go.I'm trong, a transit rider for the vta. I'm speaking on the broken promise foreign # -- for the vta. We must shift our priorities from highway transit operations and must create a worldwide area of publictransportation. Thank you for your time and consideration. Public speaker: thank you, chair chavez and members for the record, concerning the transit program. I have attended these various proceedings. There is a lot in this document. I'm sure you've all gotten o read it and I think it's worthy of your support. It's not a good document but it is the beginning as we learn more along the way. How transit requires us to takeaction. So, healthy transit is safe, timely and affordable. I think this is reasonable that this item is placed on consent and I ask that you pass this so we can begin the work of building a better vta. Thank you.6:33 PMThank you, those are all of our public speakers, we are going to the board for action.Hendricks: I was going to motion.Second.A motion and second.Roll call, please.Clerk: carr, aye, carrasco is absent, cortese, aye, diep, aye, jones, aye, liccardo, aye, mcallister, yes, nunez, yes, peralez, yes, rennie, yes, hendricks, yes, chavez, yes.6:34 PMMotion passes.Thank you. i'm moving to item 7. 1. This is taking us to our regular agenda. I'm going to ask staff to speak for not more than 5 minutes. And make sure you are ready when I call upon you. That would be great. 7.1. Information item - receive silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. This is your time. I'm going to have the presentation and then to members of the public and back to the board for conversation. With that, I will turn it over.6:35 PMMadam chair, i'm here. I will spend two minutes to tell you about phase 1. You can see on my presentation page 3. As you can see we are almost done. I think this will be my report and I will come back to you to tell you there are no more items and we are approaching the close out of the project. As we do everymonth, this is the financial report with the forecast. We don't anticipate any cost and still with savings. This will be the last report I present to you next month. As I told you before, this month, we are going to close one more contract. And next month, when i'm before you, I will tell you that we are going to close the last contract. Having said all this, the project will be completed for close out except the project for mitigation.Whereas the engineers and manager's concern, I am very optimistic that coming in october, we are at close out. That's my presentation n phase 1. On page 2, you asked us to be prepared in a follow updiscussion on the brief conversation we had on the committee on august 27th. About the entrances to the downtown in san jose. We had the discussion. Where you can cross from the north side of the street and the requirement f the crossing. We have right away the considerations with that cost. The last concept was to go below this and the cost. I presented to you the valuation metrics and we had a short discussion onthis. And you asked me to come back and your direction to follow. That's my presentation for that item. To complete phase 2, i'm on page 11 now.6:38 PMWe are following as you know, and the distributed the requirements and we are going to apply -- and they put us on the approach of the management and we submitted every document they asked us, 23 documents and there are two issues which we are dealing with right now to satisfy the requirements. One s the public private partnership contract. If you like the agreement with google.6:39 PMExcuse me, chair, can we ask him to go back a slide because I think he's talking about the prior slide.That's where I am. the two issues now which remain to be resolved between us and the fta. One with the project by google and the other is to transform to the fta's format and the three tables and the prior sheet vta did prior to the requirements by the fta. That's the two issues. I believe within this month we will be very close to finish that. And going to my last page. Is the schedule and you have seen that a few times before. But I wanted to hare with you that before the next meeting, I am very confident that the requestto feedback for the community to both the systems contracted the tunnel will be in order to create the environment within the contracting community to start creating the competition and for a good competition. That's my report, madam chair.6:40 PMThank you very much. i'm going to go to the public and then come back to the board for additional comments.Thank you, madam chair. before I call on the public, we did receive written public comment from david viera which has been posted on the website as part of the packet. And going on here. It looks like we havefour speakers.6:41 PMRoland and blair -- public speaker: thank you, madam chair, this is a cover up. There is no two ways about it. The lide showing the funding not here. Phase 1 is 20 years later carrying 175 passengers. The slides were showing estimate of $2. 2 billion, now $6 billion on top of last year's billion. Where are we going to find that from measure a. You cannot piece meal this and the two structures are not done either. There is no funding available above the $25 million and vta have been told to reply for the $100 million with 30% design. Thank you.6:42 PMYou geugene, i'm going to unmute you. Public speaker: good evening, in regards to this station, it'sconcerning that there is only one entrance. Even the montgomery bart station that that station has four entrances. Why does this have one station to satisfy some need for san jose to be unique but to stand up to san francisco. This is not good. What happens if something happens with that one entrance is closed that is going to cause a lot of issues when you need multiple entrances. You can have more than one entrance and exit to a subway such as bart. That's how cities around the world build subway station.6:43 PMThank you.Elitea, accept the unmute and begin to speak when you are ready. Public speaker: we are having problem here, chair chavez and members, great presentation. I'm looking forward to the close out of phase 1. This is visionary and some day we are going to move past this crisis and we are going to have a system that'sgoing help a lot of people. I'm looking forward to use this phase 1 to get to san jose. It will save you a lot of time. Concerning phase 2, I support the option 3 which supports the underground mezzanine to getfrom one side to the other. That is very common in a city to be able to get across the street and many stations in new york city are two levels including the largest one in the world the grand central erminal which has an upper and lower level. We need to build bart to santa clara with a station with a one street ride to santa clara. Thank you.6:45 PMThank you.Blair, i'm going to unmute you. Accept the unmute and begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: all right. Thank you. My idea to be to build the bart in downtown along st. John street, and that way while you are building it, it won't take away from the businesses along santa clara. Once it's done, you can close off the street to traffic and it will be bicycle traffic only and it will be a nice way to work. Half a block to santa clara street. I like the idea of the station being on the street level or else have it where you can walkunderneath to cross the street to avoid injuries. And it's also earthquake safe. With 16 seconds, you are working on the idea of possibly talking about the sports arena as a possible bart station maybe, how do we do that responsibly and safely for everyone to understand. Thank you.6:46 PMThank you, this is an informational item. I'm now going to the board for comments or questions. Mr. Mcallister?Yes, a quick question about the entrance to the subway on phase 2. How was that going to be funded? Was that going to be a public private partnership, was that going to be other entities involved for paying forthat?6:47 PMDo you want to respond to that?Of course the general manager should respond to that. We don't have any funding. We are committed to bring back some schematics of what maybe possible. It has not been fully developed as a scope. There isno cost estimate that's specific. What would need to happen next once we bring this back to the capital program committee is if it's a project, then a decision on the funding source would have to be made, but at this point, there is no funding for this.Thank you.Thank you.Eeing no other comments, i'm moving us on to 7. 2 and 7. 3. Raul, was this on the item you were talking about?6:48 PMYes.Go ahead.I appreciate staff's report out on that and if we can ask them to return with some of those options nd for me, I think, we certainly have been talking about that opportunity of being able to have that transfer whether aerial or underground and just appreciate having that opportunity. I want to be able to create the best options possible and looking forward to being able to hopefully choose one of those options in the near future.Thank you.We'll move on to item 7.2 and 7. 3. We are going to hear these together. These items were lead by the office of finance committee.6:49 PMThe finance committee met august 20th, report several items on tonight's agenda as well as other items approved on the consent calendar. The first item before us is 7. 2 and 7. 3. We a going to hear themtogether and they are both phase 2 related. Item 7. 2 administration and finance (a&f) committee general manager to amend contract s16140 with wsp usa inc to add $250,000, for a revised not to exceed contractamount of $744,375 to support development and presentation to the federal transit administration (fta) of the financial capacity model and related report, which May be required as part of the fta full funding grant application in which vta is requesting a full funding grant through fta's expedited project delivery programfor vta's bart silicon valley phase ii project. General manager to amend contract s15037 with ernst & young infrastructure advisors, llc to add $1,200,000, for a revised not to exceed contract amount of $2,449,000, to support development and implementation of public private partnerships, private funding, and valuecapture funding solutions for vta's bart silicon valley phase ii project. Including accounts and amounts are on your screen. The amf did have questions as well as responses to the summary and brief discussions are noted in the staff report. The committee did recommend approval for these items. Rog and michael are here tonight to provide a brief presentation.6:50 PMThank you, board member carr and thank you madam chair. I'm going to ask to present these two items for a brief discussion. Michael?Hopefully you can hear me and see me?We can.This presentation requests the addition of the value for two on going contracts 72 and 73, contracts with the construction advisors, to provide an independent advisor to build and operate this service nd working on this application for the bart phase 1 plan agreement and currently finalizing the report for phase 2 and completing the reports required for the vta process. Princeton young fulfills the requirement for the publicprivate component under the epd program. Young has been provided the services related to funding since 2015 and needs to complete the funding for the development as well as refining the implementing of other phase 2 alternatives. That concludes my presentation.6:52 PM> okay, thank you very much. this is vice-chair hendricks and the chair asked me to take over for a few moments. I'm going to public comment.Thank you. before we go o public comment, on item 7. 2. We received public comment from roland lebron which has been posted on the website. We have two speakers, roland and blair. Please accept the unmuteand begin when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, this is roland. I have no problem with 7. 3. No issue. The real problem is 7. 2. I appreciate you are busy and don't have time to read a complete staff report. Let me explain to you in 30 seconds. You are basically going to give a quarter of million dollars to go to washington to lobby for $1. 3 billion in services that will go to -- I cannot see you right now, but Icannot believe the stench here that is so strong that i'm not seeing any of you pinching your noses because you can't breathe anymore. I'm opposed to this and you should have another company taking over the lobbying in washington. Thank you.6:53 PMThank you for those comments. to our next speaker?Yes, blair, I have unmuted you. Please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, to elaborate on the last words from the previous comment. It's my understanding that there are some serious parking issues with the sports arena area and there has been a lot of internal talk over building the reason and thestadium area. I have now learned about these things. I'm trying to report this now and try to be my goodhonest self to slain what i'm learning and hearing. I imagine you are trying to work on ways to make this a more public understanding of what the future of the sports arena could be, how can we work together to make it just understood what a concept can be for bart to arrive there in the future, and I will be interested in how that can work. Thank you.6:54 PMThank you very much. I see that's the last speakers we have. I'm going to go ahead and close the public speaker section and i'm going to ask my colleagues if they have questions on 7. 2 and 7. 3. Director carr?6:55 PMI'm ready to make a motion when you are ready, vice-chair.I think we are ready.I move 7.2 and 7.3.Is there second?Second that.Okay.Bob.That was bob?Yup.With that, could we please vote?Clerk: all right. this is for item . 2 and 7. 3, motion by carr and second by nu? Ez, carr carr aye, carrasco is absent, cortese, aye, diep, aye, jones, aye, liccardo, aye, mcallister, yes, nu? E, yes, peralez, aye, rennie, aye, hendricks, yes, chavez, yes.6:56 PMThank you. I will pass the baton back to the chair.Thank you. 7. 4 was deferred under orders of the day. Now we'll move to 7. 5. 7. 5. Action item - authorize the general manager/ceo to execute a contract amendment with the superlative group (tsg) to increase thecontract by up to $1. 7 million for implementation of a naming rights sales program for vta assets, for a five year amendment term, with an option to extend an additional four years. Congestion management program & planning (cmpp) committeeThis is to implement the contract for naming for vta assets for five year amendment term with an option to extend an additional four years. The anf committee recommended this item for board approval on a vote of3 ayes and one no. We equested a report back on the progress after one year and we put the this item for board action. Ron gold, director of real estate is here to provide a brief report.6:57 PMGreat, thank you, Mr. Chair. also joining me via zoom is louis peters the analyst as well as sponsorship and as we-- and we would like to share this study and this action is to ask to implement hat program. When we talk about naming rights, we are talking about organizational sponsorships that use activity assets. What that is doing is to seek new revenues for vta. I would like to note that in the packet there is an explanation of the subject as well as the executive summary of the report prepared by this group as well as vta's naming rights and advertising policy approved by the board of directors that is the framework for how this would work. With that, I would urn it to lewis to talk about the presentation.6:58 PMThank you.So I think we are on the right slide. One back, please, thank you. Most of us are familiar with naming rights when it comes to sporting entertainment event easy. The naming rights are to the arena in the last ten years. I shared with you some of the slides of the naming rights programs with the transit agencies so you have a better understanding of a marketable value. For transit like vta, it allows us to draw revenue and from private corporations, it allows them to showcase their involvement with the community and transportation and showcase their general social responsibilities. You can go to the next slide. Thank you.So in 2019, with a naming rights rfp, it took a two phase approach. The first phase was to understand our assets and what the values are to understand whether or not to move forward with the decision to implement a sales program, and phase 2 would be the implementation of that program to sell to market ndsell naming rights to vta assets. So the contractor was awarded a super super superlative group and they began their study in January of this year. The report revealed that yes in fact vta assets are valuable and can generate significant receive. That our assets to properties are not only highly visible to ridership but also to foot traffic. Another interesting point is that in kind sponsorships, can be another valuable form ofnaming rights while it can help offset operational cost. If you can go to the next slide, please. So I have included on this slide some examples of vta assets and their estimated value. As well as I mentioned included an executive summary with their packet. You can find more detail about the evaluation there. Thisis projecting the sealings to be over $7 million for this term. Therefore staff seeks to the authorization to begin selling these naming rights.7:00 PMNext slide, please. the marketing and sales program, what that means is we would engage for a five year period and that will allow the group to establish a team to identify corporations, develop presentation material, marketing and sales collateral and to negotiate complete agreements, there is a much longer list.Ire won't go into all of that.7:01 PMNext slide, please. we'll talk about the compensation structure. So, again, we are seeking authorization from 1. Million from the sales implementation program and $12,000 a month, the commission of 15% on the projected sales. This is a based on compensation structure. Vta is limited to the two year retainer payment totaling $300,000. $1. 7 million will go to this group only if naming rights deals is signed for that$7. 5 million projection. The retainer payment is only for two years, and that's when the heavy lifting of this staff development research for a prospective corporation and developing of marketing materials takes place. Beyond the two years, vta is not responsible for paying. Lastly, I want to make sure that vta only has $300,000 at risk for this program and this will be reaching and exceeding their share of this program which we fully expect them to do.7:02 PMSo just as a recommendation and to clarify, I would like to add that any naming rights in the contract would come to the board for approval for a five year term with a four year option if we are successful. Weare making this recommendation because we believe it can bring a substantial use of $7. 5 million and with success, that could potentially bring more new revenue. With that, we are available to questions.7:03 PMThank you. i'm going to the public speakers and then come back to the board for questions, comments and action.Thank you. it looks like we have 10 people wanting to speak. The first three will be kevin, daniel and juan.Daniel, i'm going to unmute you. Go ahead and speak when you are ready. Public speaker:Can you hear me?Yes.I'm daniel, with climate action. With the first five months, we have been dealing with this pandemic and now before us, we are dealing with essential workers and those hits hard by the virus twho need to keep their jobs and considering this environment and a way to reduce a traffic accident like the one that just happened on my way home or to school. This has to be moved. In addition to the fact that you said yourself that this item will generate millions of dollars. Please, I urge you all to vote yes on item 7. 5because it will generate revenue to help save traffic. It's basically free money. The closest thing we can get to a free lunch. Orry for going over.7:05 PMThank you.Thank you.I'm going to umute you, please speak when you are ready.Public speaker: i'm with mothers out front. I'm afraid deep budget cuts will render transit unusable. I'm afraid for essential workers who use this transit to get to work. I'm afraid for people of color who have no other way to get to work. I'm afraid this will cost 70,000 to buy cars which will use gas and cause traffic.Our younger future annot wait. I ask that you say you say yes on this item. I ask that you avoid service cts. Thank you.7:06 PMThank you.We have ten speakers; madam chair, next three will be alex, alexis and eugene. Public speaker: alex, accept the unmute and begin speaking when you are ready.Vta board, this is alex speaking on behalf of myself, not the organization for which I work or for which I sit.Would like to thank the staff for this agenda item tonight. You know the revenue is needed for the agency to continue to fund essential transit services which is so important in our community. We thank you so much for continuing to provide them. Take care.7:07 PMThank you.Alexis, i'm going to unmute you, please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello, my name is alexis, i'm 14 years old. I urge you to approve 7. 5 because it will bring revenue to support transit which is helping with climate change and with increasing fires in the area, it's imperative that we stop this climate change now. I encourage you to vote on this item.Thank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: good evening, board members, thebe -- this is eugene again.7:08 PMCan you hear me?Yes.A couple of examples where naming rights happen rather successful. In cleveland, they have a bus rapid transit line from downtown cleveland and also in denver, they just opened rail line from the airport that is back to the university of colorado. So this program having naming rights if done properly can generate money to at least stave off these projected budget cuts. Thank you.Thank you, eugene. perry, i'm going to unmute you. Please accept the unmute and please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, my name is perry, a rising junior in high school and i'mwith the silicon valley climate action team. The worse effects of climate change will be irreversible. This year, 2020 is not a horrendous year because it was fated to be that way. If we don't make changes now, 2021 and 2022 maybe just as terrifying. For this reason and more, please vote on this item to generaterevenue and help save transit. Thank you.7:09 PMThank you, perry. next speaker, please. Public speaker:Can you hear me?Yes, we can.7:10 PMHi, i'm jeffrey, a student. i'm speaking on behalf of myself and also my family for whom english is not their primary language. My uncle and cousin rely on transit because they are unable to drive and just came tothe u. S. And does not have a driver's license and my uncle has a vision problem. Having said that, transit is so essential to my family and i. I urge the board to vote in favor of item 7. 5 in order to serve our residents of our county and city. Doing so will not just generate a lot of money for us, it is a way that, it's asustainable way of doing so without taxing our already over stressed and burdened residents.7:11 PMThank you, next speaker, please. Monica, natasha and blair. Public speaker: hi, my name is monica melon, for limate action and transit. I would like for you to support this item. This is going to help generaterevenue for vta without increasing taxes and it will be very helpful especially during this financial crisis where every dollar does count. Obviously this will not be enough for all service but this is going to help right now and in the future. So, I really want to thank staff for all of their work on this. Please support this and please look into more monetization in the future. Thank you.Thank you. monica. next speaker, please. Please accept the unmute and begin to speak when you are ready.7:12 PMHi, everyone.Can you hear me?Hi, i'm a lifelong resident of south bay. I'm here with turnout for transit as well as with the latino community foundation. Transit is so important for me and my family because we use it around the entire bay area and we have been here for multiple decades and we are concerned with the climate and our air and the fire and everything that has been happening and will continue to happen with climate change andwill continue to happen by cars. In order for transit, I urge you to vote yes on item 7. 5 because it would generate a steady revenue stream. If we reach los gatos where my parents and I live, there is an expandible opportunity there for branding. It will help transit and make it more accessible for all. Thankyou.7:13 PMThank you.Blair, accept the unmute and begin speaking when you are ready.Hi, thank you.I really like the words of eugene speaking on this iem. If you are going to do this project, do it well and do it right. And I think there is, I think the mayor of san jose has mentioned, he is worried about chick-fill-a being advertised. I'm worried that lockheed martin is going to advertise on transit. I find advertising a little garish and uncomfortable but I understand there is needs for revenue. I hope that you look at all ideas and what I tried to suggest earlier, you really look at state and federal funding ideas at this time and to help us consider and things May not be so bad but good luck in your decisions with this matter. Thank you.7:14 PMThank you. we have three more speakers.William, vivian and tiffany. william, accept the unmute and please begin speaking whether you are ready.Public speaker: hllo, my name is william tang from evergreen. I would like for you to vote to protect our public transit to generate more revenue sources for our public transit in thes unprecedented terrifying times and especially with all the fires going on, we should be especially aware of climate right now and how it's affecting us and public busing going to be necessary. We should be doing everything we can to protect public transit. I urge you to vote yes on easure 7. 5.7:15 PMThank you. madam chair, we did have someone else who would like to speak, are you going to allow them and end public comment.We'll end public comment after lucas. Thank you.Public speaker: hi, my name is vivian, i'm here with turnout for transit and silicon valley and a resident of san jose. I basically lived in san jose my whole life and transit is vital to myself and my friends because we are very young and we don't have cars and transit has enabled us to get around the city and explore all that san jose has to offer. Which is why I support voting yes on 7. 5. And I really urge you to vote yes onmatters of 7. 5 today. As you know so many people have already said we are facing a looming health crisis in california and we've seen with the recent wildfires and public transit is an effective ay to fight fossil fuel emissions.7:16 PMPublic speaker: hi, my name is tiffany, I would like to remain anonymous with the organization that i'm with. I think it's excellent that you are look at additional reliable funding sources. I would like to say to be considerate of maybe looking at other institutions for companies in the bay area. As you know many universities and colleges are also facing financial hardships due to the pandemic. So that is just oneconsideration I would like you to make. Thank you. 37:17 PMThank you, tiffany. our final speaker. Please accept the unmute and speak when you are ready. Public speaker: i'm a high school student from evergreen. In the context of the 'black lives matter,' the workingpeople in our community, the people of color are disproportionately using these buses. I ask that you vote yes on 7. 5.7:18 PMThank you very much. thanks to all of our speakers. I will now go to my colleagues for a motion.Are you ready for are a motion?Yes.I move that we approve item 7. 5.We have a motion and second. a motion from chappie?Yes, it was.Any further discussion? hearing nor seeing none. I'm going ask for a roll call vote.Clerk: carr, aye, carrasco is absent, courts, aye, diep, aye s jones, aye, liccardo, aye, mcallister, yes, nu?Ez, yes, peralez, aye, rennie, aye, hendricks, yes, chavez, yes.7:19 PMMotion passed.Thank you, and I wanted to thank the staff for the work they did nd the committee. That was very helpful for tonight, thank you.We are now moving to item 7. 6. Criteria for the 2016 measure b bicycle & pedestrian planning studies competitive grant program.Thank you, chair. can committee met on this and this is to approve the criteria for the 2016 measure b bicycle and pedestrian planning studies competitive grant. Our discussion revolved around community engagement and communities of concern and we are recommending moving five points from the community of engagement to the communities of concern criteria and I believe staff is okay with that andstill supports the community of engagement well enough, and marcella, our deputy director of grants and fund allocation and senior transportation planner will provide a brief presentation on this item. Theirpresentation will include the different weights selected by the criteria. Take it away.7:20 PMThank you very much, chair rennie. This is from the measure b program. I will make this presentation very brief.Next slide, please. the planning studies as mentioned for the capital project from last year. This competitive grant program is a two year cycle and we are talking about $1. 6 million for the grant award. I do want to understand that the plans, master plan and geo plans are not eligible and only for capital projects and they have been attached to the measure to be eligible. A quick overview on the difference for the capital cost for planning. We are looking at what's happening now and very early in the projectdevelopment. So oftentimes, we don't know what facilities are and we definitely don't know what the design is and as early in the project process. Staff ave come up with six criteria and one tiebraker leading to this estimate. And we had revised our staff's recommended criteria nd I will go through these pretty quickly and open up for discussion. Community engagement, this was the meat of all the discussion at the committees last no. This is early in the process and very important time to engage the community. We want to know where else are you going to engage the community and what community groups are you thinking about and how might you during these times reach out to the communities. We want eaningfulcommunity engagement and this is a good time to have the community identified and discuss issues that they might know of. And again, this is early in the time which is better than later on where they have this.Here are the measures and I think it's pretty clear what it is intended to d.7:23 PMNext slide, please. target communities of concern. We are going with the mtc depositio definition of the plan which goes directly to community of concern and the limit of a half mile of a community of concern.Targets communities of concern. How this project could benefit the community and this is a goodopportunity to get into the communities, to meet with them and see what the project does. And finally our sixth criteria of measure b contribution if the projects is more than the minimum required 10% match.Should the board adopt this criteria this evening, we will develop the guidelines and the application and we hope to have a project by the end of the calendar year. As mentioned earlier, we had five committee meetings, four different recommendations. Staff for our revised recommendations and mentioned and inclusive targets of community by 5. We feel that it does show the importance of too meaningfulcommunity engagement and communities of concern. With that, I end my presentation and happy to answer any questions.7:25 PMThank you. i'm going to the public comment first and ask for board comment and action.Public speaker: hi, basically what you have to do is follow the dot example and what happened with that over pass. All you have to do so bury the biking path over pass and the freeway over pass project and you will be able to secure in excess of $35 million in measure b fund without any questions and at the end of the day, you will be able to collect the homeless encampment on the highway without any questions from vta, staff or the board or anybody else, thank you.7:26 PMBlair, accept the unmute.Thank you. I think these are part of the idea of bicycle pedestrian super highways that, you know, maybe of interest and the neighborhoods. In regards to covid-19, I had my worries and they are going to be next to highways. That's going to be gas fumes and stuff like that and that's a bit worry some. My big push is the new green concrete and asphalt and consider those ind of options.7:27 PMThank you for that discussion.Can I get a motion, please?This is rob, I will move the staff recommendation.> raul, I will second.7:28 PMThank you, we have a motion and second. Now o my colleagues for comments. Jeannie and john then raul.This is the recommendation of the 15 points to the community concern, right?Yes.I expressed this with my board and we alked about this. The concern is I do believe we need to put an emphasis on the concern but that's the responsibility that is done at the local level on each community in terms of which project they put forward for funding. I believe that we are at a disadvantage in terms of the smaller ities that have a really don't have a community of concern hat really lacks that and when I look at that without looking at the census data, that it appears that maybe 6 of the 15 cities in the county wouldsuffer from that same problem where they would not score enough points in this particular arena. So I would strongly encourage not utting that here at 15, or another way if a city is lacking in communities ofconcern, then whether or not they can make-up for it by looking at serving, for eample, the safe routes to school, serving schools because I think that's another area we struggle in. We struggle in that even if we don't have communities of concern in our schools. I think we have a hard enough time, small cities have a hard enough time competing for grant money and this puts another barrier there. Thank you.7:29 PMThank you, jeannie, john?When it came up to cmpp, it was an interesting discussion because some of us were concerned that whatever suggestion we came up with7:30 PMThe board would fine tune it and tweak it with what we had and move with what we had. But if we don't get a buy in from the community, doesn't that help to make it more, if we get a buy in from the community, don't we get a better rate of success that people are on board with it, and they said, yeah, it was a good point to consider. That even though we have the various concern, that people need to know what we are doing and that we reach out to people and people know it's there. It was toss up between communities # and engagement and concern. I made the motion of bringing 2015 to the council because we needed to have some kind of discussion. But to go on with jeannie's point a little bit and we brought it up last time is that areas that May not have areas of concern, will still put in projects that will benefit thosepeople from communities of concern. So that was a consideration we had last time, and I think it should be a consideration this time. I think what we are doing is probably spend it a little bit more quickly and a little bit more fair. Those items should be considered moving forward.7:31 PMThank you, raul.I just wanted to say thank you to staff for bringing this recommendation forward, for taking into consideration what we discussed and I do think this helps to bring in the necessary equity that we are looking for in this program and just appreciate and hope my colleagues can support it.7:32 PMThank you. we have a motion and second. No more comments.Roll call, please.ClerkClerk: [roll call]Motion passed.Thank you to the staff. I know that was a challenging line to walk. Alert. We'll move on to item 7. 7. 7. 7.Information item - receive updated forecast on short and long-term financial impacts of covid-19. (verbalreport) (srinath)7:33 PMIf you are a member of the public and would like to speak on this item, raise your hand now. Staff is going to do a brief report and then public comment and general report and we have an informational item. I do want to remind my colleagues, we have a very important closed session. I will need you. So please hang in there, everybody. Thank you.I will now turn this over to rog.Thank you madam chair and good evening everyone. I'm going to provide a brief update on the macro level and implications to vta after that.Next slide, please. the last six months forecast of high degree of conflict or certainty. This slide illustrates my point to look at the plus one security and the curve of coloring which is a quick decline and a climb back. That's one. Same type here. Bart with a recovery which talks about a very steep deadline andgradual recovery after that. And the last by very steep decline and pretty modest recovery going back.7:35 PMSometime in july, this was an an economist study and it takes time to go back and a third of the economist say hat it would take time to get back. Has to are both sides hat are in the red and green boxes. Theeconomist were kind of evenly divided that the rest f the economic recovery we are seeing now and the job growth were reversed by the end of the year and that is high and the other half thought the risk was low.This is an interesting chart. If you go to the next slide. This is a more recent one. I guess the consensus now among everybody is recovery has begun can and we are in 2-3 now and the recovery will be robust and somewhat modest and will take a year or a little bit over to go back to normal levels. Now we'll go to a brief update for the fiscal year ending June 30th.7:36 PMThank you, rog and good evening board members. I just want to recap that right now for all of ourtransportation most were stable about 25% of prepandemic ridership levels, bus rails and paratransit. We are trying to compare here between what we budgeted and what are the preliminary in audited results from the last fiscal year and these, the column that is fiscal year actual, you can see here, both are negative variance, that's pertaining to sales tax revenue and more than two thirdch those originate from our local sales tax measures, practically the results from March through June basically account for almost $20 million of our net variance. The rest is basically sga and tga where we received $15 million less, sta revenue and almost $5 million in tda revenues. All of that variance naturally occurred between April and the fiscal year, we were in reasonable shape. So the total revenue as a result we we received about $4million less. If ycan focus on the table at the bottom, we have a variance of $39. 4 million which help us to better net operating balance as we have projected in the recent past. So if these numbers survive theaudit; we May end up having a net operating balance of $5. 5 million which we will bridge by the cares act funding that we received.7:39 PMGoing forward into this fiscal year, we are looking into what we received recently from the ucla anderson forecast back in june. This is our range in forecast from left to right conservative and the more opticscenario. We are looking at about $374. 4 million in terms of total revenues and that includes sales tax, fares and other revenues. In a similar line-up, we also go back and look at recent expenditure trends and we are projecting right now that we May end up having a variance in 3 terms of total expense just shy of $500 million. So our projected deficit right now could be in a range of about $101 million to about 122million. To which we are going to once again using the cares act funding that we eceived to bridge that gap. That concludes my brief presentation and very happy to answer any questions.7:40 PMThank you, franklin and thank you, rog. We'll go to the public and then come back to the board for comments, discussion or questions.Thank you fo. it ooks like we have three speakers. Roland, please begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: so this is roland, explaining this in one minute is going to be really hard. I wish we can see the slide instead of this gigantic clock while we address the board. I want to talk to you about no. 7. You have to have a break down here of what sales taxes we are talking about. Is the 76 measure arch or -- ormeasure b. Or light rail operations. You can see the $50 million and it doesn't add up to that amount. In closing, I would like staff to come back on the 17, give us the complete breakdown of these measures andreport accurately to the board what we are talking about in terms of sales tax revenue and bus rail operations. Thank you.7:41 PMThank you. eugene, i'm going to unmute you.7:42 PMPublic speaker: thank you, i'm echoing n roland lebron comments especially in the last fiscal year alone, $2. 2 million with that ballot measure for the last fiscal year, over 86%, $186 million, 80% was collected that went to bart. That is ot the balance that we the voters expected to make. So, so, echoing Mr. Lebron'scomments. Thank you.> thank you.Blair, i'm going to unmute you. Accept the unmute and begin speaking when you are ready.Hello, thank you. it was interesting to learn how the cares act funding works within the vta here. Thank you. You know, with what has happened with the housing issue at the state level at this time, I feel it's important that we go over, you know, the depth of how covid has been introduced to our lives and what we are trying to do at the local level to address that. And we have to take some open minding approaches to deal with it and I think we are figuring out a system to do that and I want to be able to explain in the next months that we have to be open to that and it can be okay and safe. And it's doing a good thing and we don't have to be fearful of it and this will be over in a couple years at this point. Thank you for your work.7:43 PM> i'm now going to my colleagues on the board. I will start with glen and then to rog.7:44 PMThank you for the summary report on the impact f vta's budget relates to covid-19. I just want to ask a question about what we are seeing is due to this deficit and am I correct that the cares act funding willallow us to maintain and not have o reduce any service hours? Is that the working assumption right now, subject to new information?Mr. Hendricks, that's an excellent question. Based on the budget we have, I want to be careful in answering that question because right now we are not providing 100% of the budgeting service. We areproviding approximately 75% of the service that is coming directly with the demand. If that continues, the answer is yes. We don't have to reduce any further and we don't have to dip into the reserves easither.7:45 PMOkay, that's what I want to know. I don't want to make blanket statements, for example, with the service level we have today and the revenue side, cares act will help us maintain the service hours we have today?That's correct. I will responsibility to a couple of comments that were made by the public speakers soeverybody gets a clear picture. When I talk about the sales tax and the revenues, if I may?Sure. thank you.No. 1, it's all sales tax revenues that we get for our operations. It's light rail and transit. Not anything else.It's the sales tax and the measure a sales tax. It is also a portion of 2016 measure b that was plus what we get from mtc for tda and these are all sales tax revenues. Believe franklin in his presentation he mentioned predominantly the local which is what we collect, however it lso includes what we get from tdawhich are also based on sales tax. Thank you.7:46 PMSo thank you. this is good information and I will look forward to future updates, thank you.Thank you. rob?Thank you, glen asked one of the questions that I was thinking also that as the summary that we should be okay for fy21, but I think what I heard you say or I interpreted it as if service starts coming back which would be a good thing, we are actually going to be a little bit more in the hole because of our fair box recovery is only between 10-15%. So we'll get some more revenue but our expenses will go up more thanour revenue and then this budget picture will look a little bit worse. But the cares act, it looks like we have enough fy21 even with the conservative case and still have enough for fy22 if I can reading this correctly.7:47 PMThat's correct.The cares act funds seemed to be moving a lot. How is this cares act number, are we set on that or could that change on us?This is what we have received.Okay. so thank you, john. I take it back. That's what we have.So we can roll it all the way into fy22 also what has been left over?Can I get back to you on that?7:48 PMOkay.That May also be some time limit on the expenditures. So yes, we'll have staff make sure that we are precise on that.So would we have to give some back if we don't, we had a time limit or could we use it for something other than this operating budget.I don't want to give you an automatic response.Let's just say, we are going to find a way to use it.That's with an I would hope.You can do all the thinking you want. All right, thank you. [ laughter ] sam?Sorry, thank you. madam chair, I think you pointed to an issue that was good to raise. Is it December 2020 for the cares act money?It's an a little bit different. That's why I hesitated. I didn't want to give a response. No. 1, the cares actfunding is available for expenditures incurred between January 1st of 2020 through December of 2020.That's one full calendar year. Yes, $141 million is a portion of expenses incurred in that period. That's what we based that on. In that regard, we are good. I believe the question was can we carry it forward, that's a little bit of a less response. I want to be correct when we respond to that. So, hopefully I answered yourquestion.7:49 PMCan you just help me with the ambiguity that we are not getting this from the feds?7:50 PMIt's a little bit of a response.We can take it off line.The quick response is cares act funding provides for reimbursement of operating expenses or loss of revenues to provide for operations from the time period from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020. So the $141 million plus for that and we have incurred to our multiples are due during that period for expenditures. What we have done is correct, because our expenses far exceed what we have from them. So hopefully that answers your question. If there is nything else, we can take it off line.Okay, thank you. with regard to the recovery, none of us have a crystal ball, but the suggestion that we could be back to normal in a couple years, just looking at the last recession, i'm guessing we went to get back to 2007 levels, in the city of san jose it wasn't until 2014, I can't imagine this is going to recovery either if it all works out well, wouldn't we want to take a longer view on this recession7:51 PMWe do. that definitely we do. there are two thing, no. 1, on September 18th, of this month, there is a board workshop to talk about service levels. What level of service. And we'll get some guidance from the board on that and we'll be representing three service options, sfi # 70, 80, and 90% levels and finally the process for the fiscal year 22 and 23 year. We will be looking at what revenues we can get for the service level that we can afford.7:52 PMThank you very much.Thank you and thanks for that discussion and that presentation. We are going to move on to item 8. 1.This is the general manager's report. There are some people that have to recuse themselves from item in closed session. We are going to do that before so people can recuse themselves from closed session. We are going to the general manager's report.Thank you and good evening. I would like to recognize the men and women that come to work each and everyday to deliver these essential services during hese past few months during covid. Thank you. Earlier, you accepted the fta grant and audited # 7 -- automated transit plan and this is planned from the cdc and the world health organization. Well, next week, as chair of apta, I will be rolling out the event for the program because the health and safety of our transit riders are the very top of our priority. The reason a bring this up is all the health and safety plans are underlying he similarity. They are not intended to be fully prescriptive but to demonstrate that we are serious about the safety of our riders, the safety of our employees and we want to make sure that the public and our employee workforce understands the things that we are doing and that were similar. We are not striving for 100%, but we certainly want to hit all of those elements that are greatest to them. The commitment that we are rolling out on a national level is one that is of the agency and they can display it on their buses and that seal and there is a number that are going to be consistent as it relates to safety and cleanliness. Next, some good news. The vta partnered with the western reserve transit authority in I don't eh -- ohio to support mobility in the country and we were one of the five contracts to receive funding for vta and we received the largest share, almost 20percent of the grants that were available. All of these total funds will round out what we need for the project. We are going to use it to deploy the accessible automated vehicles that will help with the first and last mile solutions and vta will be testing the ability of automated vehicles o provide a mow inclusive, equitable cost-effective service on the operating conditions. The grant project is going to be leveraging the technology and information from the previous work to about would the accessible automated shuttlecapable for operating on city streets from 25-35 miles per hour in mixed traffic. This is all part of urinnovation that we have lost several years back and now we are seeing some opportunities to start bringing some tangible results. The federal transit administration is bringing what we call for automation and we were one selected in the country to participate in the automation community of practice and wewere selected because of the work that we were selected with partners before on the transit shuttle that we will be using at the va hospital. And this is from practices and learned lessons and among allparticipants that are going to be sharing and learning in this advancement across the nation. This is September and September is safety month. I'm going ask angelique who is our safety officer to provide us with a report on the safety security awareness initiatives taken at vta. Angelique?7:57 PMThank you, nuria. as uria stated, this is national rail and safety month and we promote safety practices throughout the year, this is the time of year where we get to focus on areas of concern that we May be seeing out in our system. Given everything that's going on worldwide, people are not as focused and a bit distracted and their concern with the health and safety of their families. The theme this year is don't letyour guard down7:58 PMAnd we have to pay attention to this when you are on boarding our system. You will see that on our website, news challenges and social media and platforms. We encourage you to share that and reminders on your platforms as well. I would like to remind everyone that we are coming on the anniversary of 911 and public transit is a known target for terrorist attacks. So please be vigilant when you are riding on or around our system. If you see something, say something. We've got our vta security teams that are comprised of both the county deputies and security private staff. So reach out to them if you see something, get on our vta alerts, call 911, but you can never be too cautious especially during these times.With that, I will turn it back the nuria.7:59 PMThank you very much, angelique. This activity that many of us have always looked forward to and this happened in may, for those of you participating in this meeting, remember we would ride our bikes downtown all the way to river oaks campus. Now it's called bike to wherever month. September is bike towherever month. This is a new spin on the bike to workday given that we couldn't because of the pandemic hold anything in may. So we have partnered once again with the silicon valley bicycle coalition. This year'stheme accounts for those who are working from home. September will be dedicated to encouraging cyclist whether you are seasoned or new and for those who have not ventured on a bike for some time to get on a bike and ride. There is a website called love ride and there is a coalition to recognize participants,individuals and teens with the most rides and most people hat are encouraged to ride and there will be great prizes. With that, madam chair, I will now see what's next. I believe that the next item is the government affairs report. I believe there is a written report provided to board members and also online.So if there are any questions regarding my report, I will be happy to answer. Thank you.8:01 PMGreat, thank you so much nuria. There was a lot in there. I'm going to the public speakers and back to my colleagues.> okay, thank you, madam chair, it look like we have four speakers. Eugene, roland, alita and blair. Please accept the unmute and please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board, this is eugene, just in regard to the grant you received for the buses, I had a chance to speak with a few people that are working and the current status with the working and with this automated bus program, theconcern is if this does go forward and vta ultimately does start an automated bus program, what will happen to the current bus drivers, will they get the training that they will need to handling at least the utomated buses for as an alternative for security since there is not going to be a driver to secure the buses, that's going to be a problem for your security. Ensuring making sure the current drivers get the necessary training they will need to be able to to provide for everybody once this automation does happen.Thank you. Public speaker: thank you for the couple of comments. I hope with this 25-35 miles an hour,with the connector, I don't think will work very well. The other question I have is the mayor of san francisco, london breed is asking people to stay 3 feet away from other riders, thank you.8:03 PMPublic speaker: chair chavez and members, thanks. Good report. I'm looking forward to seeing what we can do with autonomous vehicles. I have actuall actually one for a year there was a similar us that made aloop route in las vegas, in nevada in the downtown area. A lot of fun. We've got an example to follow.Again, I really enjoyed the description of the healthy transit program given to nuria. It really is a question of ideas of how to enforce to show the public that we do care about safe transit and the variousorganizations I have talked to have listened to my concerns. As far as biking, let's remember electric bikes.It's very helpful for people with disabilities. It's very inclusive. Again, good report. We are on the way. This is part of great and legendary transportation. Thank you.8:04 PMThank you, our final speaker will be blair. Public speaker: hi, thank you. It seems to me that we have areaare # airs # areasol vaccines -- we maybe getting over the covid issues but we have to deal with otherissues. I really found the bicycle idea more interesting and more interesting than the ab projects. Hopefully you can have really good energy towards the bicycle programs and what they can do, and the city of sanjose, they had a report and you will find it interesting today if you want to check it out.8:05 PMThank you very much. I will now go to the board for any questions on the general manager's report.Member rennie?Thank you, chair, with the passage of ab 288 which allows transit projects to go faster through ceqa, do we anticipate with helping with any projects that we have plans, I realize you May not have had a chance tothink about it, but I thought I would ask the question.8:06 PMI don't have an answer for you. I would look to the staff to do an analysis of that bill and give a presentation at the cmpp.Okay, thank you.Any other comments from my colleagues? Jim, did you want to weigh in?That's okay. nuria handled it.Thanks. and thank you very much. That's a lot of work and we'll look forward to the national kickoff of the clean and safe transportation. Hat's what we need to get is to make sure we have a blanket approach.Item 8. 2 s my report. I want to start with a very big thank you to the vta employees and to nuria and her team for allowing us to use an historic trolley to have safely distanced live event of having a woman's voterights in this country. It was a great event. There were board chairs and a bunch of women doing great work throughout the county. It was really a very fun event. And so I wanted o say a big thank you. We got to ride around. That was retty cool. The other thing I just wanted to do is remind my colleagues that we have a workshop scheduled for Friday September 18th at 9:00 a. M. . A video and teleconference. What's really important at the workshop is we are going to eceive an in depth presentation on the 2021transportation lan update. The importance of this is our staff is already doing community outreach and engagement for getting feedback and ideas for the staff and reviewing at least three options with the public. Vta's service planning community outreach and customer service teams are developing the 2021service plan that are taking in the factors thrust upon us by the pandemic. Public meetings will be conducted virtually with the basis on partnering with our community basis to make sure we reach into the community. The staff that you please share information in your newsletters so constituents can get as much information as possible. Are there any questions for me? Seeing none, are there any referrals? Any announcements? John mcallister?8:09 PMNder items of concern, you talked about it on the meeting today on government. I'm looking at an e-mail that came out at 2:48 today and there was 12 items of our agenda had been updated. And we need to find a way that this information can get to us sooner. We don't have time. I don't think most council members or board members have that time between 2:48 and 5:30 to look t those items and see what's pertinent and make an informed decision. We need this information sooner so we do have time to look at it and address it. If anyway to get information, that's what I would ask.8:10 PMThank you very much. nuria, do you want to respond to that?I believe elaine wanted to explain because I don't think it was that involved.This is elaine. the changes in the board packet included some of the public comments that we have received. Our deadline to receive public comments is at noon today. There were also some changes on the powerpoint, but they were very minor changes. So, I just wanted to make sure the board is aware of that.Thank you very much. I do think that we can have a conversation and we have a big work plan about all the changes we want to make. So we can toss it in and discuss it's there as well. All right, thank you,everyone. We are going to move on to item 9. This is closed session. What you have is nother link. I'mgoing to ask you to put this on mute and turn off your mic and your video and then join us on the # other meeting.8:11 PMSupervisor chavez?Yes.I think i'm supposed to make my disclosure of recusal at this time.You are right.I will be recusing under 9.1 a and b. Under government code section --Glen?I would also recuse myself.The two items, a and b?Yes.Okay.Thank you.8:12 PMYes, thank you.I'm sorry, before you go, did you say a and b?Just a.You are recusing under a?Yes.All right.Madam chair, this is elaine. I have a hand up on the attendee side from the public.I'm sorry. elaine, let me see if I can make sure i'm good. Okay, roland. This is roland speaking under item 9?You have been unmuted.I'm sorry.That's okay. public speaker: madam, very briefly, can you please check with mayor liccardo that he did not recuse from voting on item 9. 2. Thank you. Recuse himself.8:13 PMMayor, liccardo, I don't believe mayor --Thank you. yeah, thank you. I was trying to find the item, my apology. I was trying to find the agenda item. I had not come to the closed session items yet. So I am trying to scroll through it now.7.2.Yes, I believe I recused myself during the committee hearing and probably should have done so during the committee hearing.Okay, we'll consider that a recusal on 7. 2.Yes, thank you.Thank you, Mr. Lebron.All right. we are really now going into closed session whether we like it or not. There you go. See you in a few.