December 5, 2019Valley transportation authority4:58 PMBoard of directorsPlease stand by...>Please stand by...5:00 PMValley transportation authority board of directors.Good afternoon and welcome to the vta board of directors meeting for Thursday December 5, 2019. We are being called to order. Please call the roll.5:01 PMClerk: [roll call] you.lBoard member blankly,Board member [roll call].Madam chair, we have a quorum.Great. let's stand for the pledge of allegiance.5:02 PM1. 3. Orders of the day2. Closed session we have a revised item to go to closed session. We will discuss 2.1 a and 2. 1 x and we'll resume upon the conclusion of those items and we'll recess again at the end to discuss the remaining items on the agenda. Staff has requested to replace item . 6 on the concept plan update to the consent agenda. This item was presented to the san jose city council on Tuesday evening and the caltrain board earlier today. In coordination with vta and other partners, the city of san jose will hold a session on July 18, 2020.5:03 PM.Additionally I would like to request that we move up item 9. 5 before 9. 2. This is the vta's vision and I thought it would be helpful to hear from our guest speaker about changes in transportation before we thinkabout that particular category of easure b funding.So, are there any other changes requested by my colleagues?Okay, is there a motion and second to approve the orders of the day?So moved..Okay. all in favor say, 'aye'.5:58 PMRecording was Paused6:02 PMAye.Any opposed? okay. we will now recess to closed session to discuss item 2. 1 closed session. That takes us to item 3. 3. Election of chairperson and vice chairperson for calendar year 2020 time is going fast enough.The 2020 board chair will be elected and the vice-chair will be voted on. First vice-chair chavez submitted a letter of interest for the position of chair. A copy of the letter is included in your packet. May I have a nomination for chair?6:03 PMSo that is a motion and a second to nominate vice-chair chavez to be the chair for the next calendar year.Are there any other nominations? Okay, May I have a motion to second and close the nomination? okay. I think we are goofed up here. Okay, May we have a motion to elect cindy chavez as chair. All in favor say, 'aye'.6:04 PMAye.Any opposed? congratulations, cindy, thank you very much. We will now receive the nomination for the vice-chair. Copies are included in your packet. We'll open up for the nominations and then I want to give an opportunity to those who wish to speak. Then we have some public speakers and then if there is any comments from board members. So, do we have a nomination for vice-chair? Any nominations for vice-chair. We have two letters of interest.6:05 PMThe people that have letters of interest are not automatically nominated, right?Right..I will nominate glen hendricks. .Okay, we got a second for that. Anyone else? .I nominate rob rennie.I will econd that. are there any other nominations? Any nominations from the floor? Seeing none? Okay, May I have a motion to second and close the nominations.Second..All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? okay. thank you very much. We have to have a motion to approve the slate of nominees?May I have a motion to approve the slate of nominees?6:06 PMSo moved..All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? okay, since we have more than one nominee, the method of voting is as follows: there will be a [roll call] vote and if neither candidate can garner votes, I will allow further discussion until that isinvolved. At this point I will ask the nominees. Mr. Hendricks, would you like to address the board? >.6:07 PMGood evening, fellow board members. I'm here tonight to ask for your confidence in your vote. Please vote for me for vice-chair for 2020. As you know, have served on this board and currently mayor of sunnyvale.Since joining the board I have been an active member and I have been on the finance committee and I have attended every board meeting. I have attended board meetings on multiple occasions and ad hoccommittee and chair of the pac this last year. I remain fully engaged with the activities and decisions of the board. I am committed to the vta organization and to the service it delivers to our residents. As a board member and as your vice-chair, my objectives will be the long-term financial sustainability of vta, thegrowth of our ridership and retaining our employees nd I have chaired some of the meetings and regional leadership which is rather working together to collaborate solutions. 'm here to ask you to vote in favor of me as your vice-chair.6:08 PMHank you. Mr. Rennie?Thank you, I sent a letter to the board and in that letter I talked about my philosophy for how a board chair should run meetings and basically about leadership and what makes me passionate about vta and thethings that i'm excited about working on. I did like the part of the experience and what I thought our process and I started off as an alternate o the pac and director carr was chair at the time and I attendedas n alternate anyway and observe and I was on pac for a couple years and I was the alternate for sveda for wo years and currently for two years. Pretty much since I have been elected I have had an interest in vta and would like to continue to increase my level of engagement. Some of the things in my letter I would like to cover. It got in late and some of you May not have read it. My philosophy as mayor of los gatos is to always let others speak and as the chair letting others and it's part of the board to make decisions and part of that I feel that driving as governance of the board is leadership on this item and I would start by engagement and training and as the chair I would try to drive that more as part of this idea of enabling the board. Another philosophy of mine as Mr. Hendricks also mentioned was to think regionally and emphasize the greatest of the hold. And I was asking to put the ridership on hold to improve the sstem. As an electedofficial in one of the towns in the county, much of my service has been regional also. I'm currently ice-chair of the emergency operating council and vice-chair for the lafco commission and also served n the association board, league of cities board, a bag and so forth. Some of the things that i'm passionate about that I listed that i'm excited about driving as vice-chair or chair or even if i'm just still the board member, I listed are accelerating the delivery of bart into downtown, speeding up of our bus and train initiatives. This # initiative to train people off their cars and get on a bus and also to reduce cost and provide betterservice of engagement. A particular interest is a reduced cost light rail alternative and autonomous vehicles and also our caltrain service to south county. I would like to keep moving that forward. And alsoimplementin implementin implementing first mile solutions and for those with less mobility options and also continued financial health. Those were kind of the top of mine passionate but the other items that I look for to working on that I think are important for vta and the coming years is the grade separation n thenorth county, the diridon station and transient orient development and our 85 corridor and other job areas such as north bay shore. Those are my thoughts, how i'm thinking, please consider me for vice-chair.6:13 PMThank you very much, Mr. Rennie. So, we have two members of the public that would like to speak on this item, and first is daniel quinn, followed by tom mayer. Please come forward. Public speaker: good evening,board members. I'm here to speak on the matter of selecting a chair and vice-chair. I have always appreciated our councilwoman and chair o'neill and would like to welcome ms. Chavez. As for the vice-chair, when I first met Mr. Rennie, it was at a candidate running. I knew Mr. Rennie was an honest down-to-earth and passionate about helping people with an energetic and friendly smile. It was no surprise that it was Mr. Rennie who made the notion to save bus 65, I knew he needed a promotion to better serve all ofus and now that I know he's running to be vice-chair, I now urge the vta board to vote for this wise pilar to the vice-chair position because he's the most successful candidate to serve in this position and truly cares about vta and is truly a servant of the people. Thank you very much. .6:16 PMThank you very much. Mr. Mayer? public speaker: y name is thomas mayer, I live in north sunnyvale. I am completely dependent on mass transit. I don't have a vehicle that I can drive where I can take my chairwith me. I have had a number of 3 conversations with glen, I have watched him over the years as council member and mayor. He is very competent. We don't always agree on the direction to go, but he is passionate about the future financial viability of the system. And without that, nothing else really matters..6:17 PMThank you for your comments. would any other member of the public like to weigh in? Please come forward. Public speaker: hi there. I did a quick research on both candidates and before I came here. So I think that Mr. Rob rennie has a very strong record on the environment, and I think he will be very strong inworking with supervisor chavez to move vta forward. So I highly recommend him. Thank you. .Thank you. anyone else? okay, thank you. Are there any comments from members of the board? Okay, if 3there is no comments from board members, board secretary, could we have the roll, please. .6:18 PMThe board will vote for the position of vice-chair for 2020 nominees for this position are glen hendricks and rob rennie. I will call each name and if you can each note who you are oting for. Board member car carr.Mr. Rennie..Board member carrasco.Hendricks.Board member diep, hendricks, board member jones?Hendricks, four votes.Board member liccardo? hendricks, 5 votes. .6:19 PMBoard member mcallister?Rennie, 2 votes..Board member peralez?Hendricks, 6 votes..Board member rennie?I think I will vote for rennie. [ laughter ] rennie 3 votes. .Board member tran?Hendricks 7 votes..Vice-chair chavez? hendricks 8 votes. .Chair o'neill?Rennie..Board member hendricks got 8 votes, member rennie 4 votes. .Congratulations. [ applause ] thank you to both candidates for your willingness to serve. We will expect great things from Mr. Hendricks in his new role. 4. Awards and commendation retirement commendationrecognizing vance gwinn, transportation field supervisor, for 38 years of service. He was unable to attend.We are thankful for his 38 years of service at vta. That brings us to public comment. We currently have 34cards. I know that everyone wants to speak. If your name has been called and everybody has said what you want to say and if you want to say ditto or it's already been said, hat would be helpful, but you certainly are all welcome to speak. Also, if you have a customer service concern, we urge you to contactour customer service department after you make comments and the contact information is on the screen and it's also very helpful if you do that because we have better means of tracking about getting back to you about the concerns that are raised. Please follow through with customer service. I will call up people at one time and we'll take people in groups. The irst is kevin catela, followed by lina and followed by antonio perez. We'll go with two minutes but if you can keep it as short as possible, that will be helpful.6:22 PMI am extremely upset with you about the changes on the plan of the 28. I want you to know that this entire plan that you have setforth that you are putting into place on the 28th, is not most of it, well is not any good good. It's not going to help any. I'm going to give you an example, the 60 which I ride all the time and I told you a lot of people told you don't do this. Do not stop the 60 from going to great america.What did you do? You didn't listen to us. A lot of us now, I am almost to the point where I don't even want to tell you anymore about when you ask for comments on things like that because you guys, you don'ttake into consideration what we tell you. We've told you that we have a lot of people that ride the 60 and we wanted it left the way it was. You didn't listen to us. And we want to know when some of us would liketo know why you didn't choose another -- why you didn't choose another line to go to milpitas rather than messing up the 60. Thank you. .6:24 PMThank you very much. next will be blair bicman. Public speaker: hi, the depression era mural can bringdialogue to public art. It seems this consensus is growing and a mural will bring messages but over the years it May have started a discomfort for everyday students and people that are part of the high school. I feel in santa clara county the logo can make people feel uncomfortable. I would like to address this subjectmore often and to ask how we can change these non-competitive terms. There are various feelings people have of comfort and for other people public transit can bring ideas for community transit and help to look for new and increased ridership. All of us need to consider a new logo and what is sometimes a confused and hurtful message May also convey and fight for. Although, it maybe 4-5 years from now. I hope now is the type to consider the ad hoc committee to consider new logo design ideas or at least consider the space for us to talk about the logo. .6:25 PMThank you very much. linda sell? Public speaker: hi, i'm here to read a letter from bay area for clean environment. I'm the vice-chair and also the president of sunnyvale environment club. We sent a letter and we say that vta and other government agencies must reexamine their plans in light of the unexpected greenhouse gas cause environmental disasters. Forbes as recently reported and quoted from an open letter by 11,000 climate scientist. In it, it says the climate crisis has arrived and here faster than most scientist expected and more severe than anticipated threatening natural eco systems in the fate of humanity. Inlight of these reports, vta must take bold action in a quickly and affordably establish clean rail systems. We have now even more traffic. Our buses are responsible for half of the greenhouse gas emissions and half of the harmful pollution due to the vehicle miles traveled. Vta must measure funds away from highway expansion to transit operations as soon as possible to provide santa clara county with the fast and efficient service. These express buses would not only reduce greenhouse gasses but improve the air quality as half of our pollution is due to the vehicular.6:28 PMThank you very much, linda. after hoi and antonio, we have brian ruiz, tom me nard, tom mayer, and jonathan erman.I want to continue linda's comment. We are urging vta board to declare a climate emergency which the city of san jose and board of supervisors have done recently. Thank you for those who voodon it for yourleaderships. We would call for a just transition for the fleet vehicles and two, a commitment to avoid future cuts to bus service throughout the county especiall especially impacting the low-income and under served and the youth. I was fortunate to visit europe two times this year copenhagen and sweden and switzerland. Some of the top countries with excellent public transits. Some things that we can learn fromthem is their preferred collaboration, union labor folks, community groups and elected officials all orktogether to come up with comprehensive solutions. So, I encourage the board to work with tech leaders and think about how to leverage tech resource because based on what I heard directly from tech leaders, they can not pay for their own bus service on going, so they are looking into, okay, well, what they can do.So some sort of collaboration with tech companies and businesses will be able to solve the funding issuesand I know it's a challenge to be able to pay for everything. So, I encourage everyone to think outside the box and work with community and youth need your help to have a proper transit because it just kind of,it's difficult for the parents and for youth not to be able to go from point a to point b. Thank you and I have a copy of the letter for everyone which is signed by 45 community leaders and environmentalist andorganizations.6:30 PMThank you very much.Antonio perez? public speaker: good evening, i'm antonio perez. Senior citizens have asked me to speak on their behalf and now you don't have the 45 and 61 or 542 to go to school and work and that means we can't ride the light rail. You should shutdown the light rail on the east side in san jose. If you want us toride the bart we need the 45 and 62 on the east side of san jose. So consider that we need a bus on the east side of san jose, so we can get around. Thank you. .6:31 PMThank you. May we have tim me nard? Public speaker: good evening, council. It's a pleasure to be here with you. I'm not your rider. I don't ride your trains, I don't ride your buses. I try to but they take twice asmuch time to travel anywhere that I want to go than just driving. That's pretty upsetting having lived indowntown san jose. I have had to commute to mountain view which there is ample service. But unfortunately it's not effective. So i'm here to bring up that i'm in favor of relocating measure b funds. As a person who drives a car. Because research shows that adding more lanes does not take cars off the road.It adds way more. Just adding more buses or more trains is also not the solution. A real hard look at how the operations run, how are cities work with vta and how we can all work together to improve our entire community because people are leaving faster than we can drive through here is what it's going to take.There are solutions available today to help move this faster. And move the ball farther. Thanks. .6:33 PMThank you very much. next tom mayer followed by jonathan and scott mays, thomas tanner and roland lebron and judy. Public speaker: good evening. A couple of comments. One I strongly support anindependently elected vta board. There is no bus service running up and down lawrence xpresswaybecause it doesn't go downtown of any town. Treasure hospital, costco, thousands and housands ofapartments with no service. So we need a directly elected board. Two, I support the people that have spoken before me concerning funds for vta not agreeing with the people that were upset with routes beingchanged. We need to stop building new lanes. We need to stop this. 20 years ago I lived in downtown and I still live in north sunnyvale. I could beat the train on my bke. If the expresslanes are a good idea, why can't we make all of them for the buses. Let's improve the highways. Thank you. .6:36 PMPublic speaker: hi, my name is brian. I'm going to say hat you are probably going to hear a lot and that is to increase the bus and less highways. Similarly, I urge the board to declare a climate emergency. This issomething we really cannot afford to not take seriously anymore. The massive fires that have burned down half of california are only going to get worse from here. This needs to be a concerted effort. These two things dovetail pretty nicely. We can help reduce carbon emissions by taking cars off the road and it will not only help the environment but also makes the entire community stronger. The better we can getaround, the stronger the community is. So, I think this principal, if you build it they will come applies both in favor of expanding transit operations and against more lanes on the highway. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, I jonathan. I want to express my displeasure with the board. We have not been listened to.We are getting no improvements to our service at all. It's incredibly frustrating to go out to see the signs you put up to say that your service will be changing, more usable connections, more options. But where are the signs saying this top is being cut, this service maybe cut. Where are the buses telling riders youwon't be able to se this bus. My brother uses the bus to get to places of work and you haven't put out the schedule yet and we don't even know in three weeks how we are going to get around. We can't even plan.We don't even know what they are going to be yet. It's ridiculous. It's being ill planned and once you cut some of these services how can we advocate for more service if these lines have been cut. You have this new 22 line listed as an improved route and ow is combining the 35 and with the 32 and improved route where you are making a super long line and it's long for the riders and buses. It's not improving. And it's not reliable. How can we advocate for this where for years, the public has been saying don't cut this line and they cut. It should be going to the vta and the other. You have no interest on stimulating this ridership on the line. What is the purpose if you can't connect to it if there is no bus.6:39 PMThank you. public speaker: scott niece. .Good evening, I take the 81 and light rail from where I live from downtown to kaiser and everywhere. I'm concerned that in the next round the bus reallocation service cuts, 81 will be on the chopping block. It's time to follow the lead of santa clara and san mateo and san francisco county to declare this emergency.Please preserve the current bus service and restore the service that's been cut and services promised butnever delivered. We can do this.6:40 PMGood evening, my name is tom tanner. I live in morgan hill and I have been a vta express bus rider for 28 years. First I want to say thanks to staff for publishing cancellation notices on service alerts whenever the 121 express bus is canceled. That's the good news. He bad news is we are having a lot of cancellations on21. I have a notice for monday, tuesday, Wednesday of this week. It's getting to be pretty much unreliable service. On monday, we lost three of nine buses. Monday morning. We can't get to work with that kind ofbus service. I was called in and gotten a response back from customer service. They have been very good.They have been working with us but I wanted to bring it to the board's attention and the service level has been really depreciating lately. I have got an idea for you if the response is that there is not enough staff to drive the buses. What if you have retired bus drivers as an auxiliary staff part-time so when you knowyou are going to have a cancellation, these guys and gals who used to drive you call them up and say would you like to take a oute tomorrow? I think that might fill avoid and not have a drop in service. Thank you very much.6:42 PMThank you for your comments. roland lebron? Public speaker: as you are hearing we have multipleproblems and believe you can kill two problems with two stones. And we also know we have a lot of people who are screwing up moving forward. And here is what i'm suggesting. If an individual is identified ashaving an issue, there will be a reclassified of the trainee. Going to driving school. One of the things is going to happen is they will graduate or flunk school at which point they will be reclassified as janitors.Let's just assume that they have successfully completed school, they have driven the bus for six months, haven't killed nybody which is quite an achievement and they will then be considered for promotion for a light rail operator. If they are successful for six months, then they will be allowed to resume and hopefully return back to the prior position as a better person and we'll never see it again. So, tonight, i'm going give you the first example of a person that deserves to go be a trainee operator. If you change the system that the announcements of the system are completed by computers. What these people don't understand is that blind people who are riding the light rail no longer know where they are. .6:44 PMThank you very much.Thank you very much.Next speaker, please. ( calling names ) public speaker: i'm judy. I live in south san jose. My bicycle is how I get around along with transit. I urge you to improve bus service and declaration of a climate emergency and supporting transition to all clean vehicles and a commitment to preventing future cuts to bus services.Transit users will appreciate the frequent schedules as of December 28th. Unfortunately, they don't deal much with the transit needs. Additionally, I urge you to improve the platforms and bus stops. Lastly, congratulations to supervisor chavez as chair. .6:45 PMThank you very much..Public speaker: hi, my name is rachel. I live in midtown and would urge the bus to consider measure b reallocation and declare a climate emergency. I have a car and I use it all the time and I really don't want to. Evident I try it, I go where there is public transportation and takes me 3-4 times as long. I'm tired of having to keep feeding uber and lyft every time I want to drive. I don't want to we paying corporations. Weshould be more about our community. Honestly I came here thinking about how I was complaining about how I can't get to the airport in less than an hour and I live right next to diridon. It's just crazy to me that the services are being cut and we are not expanding on those more. Thank you. .6:46 PMThank you. kathleen wong. public speaker: good evening, I know I know some of you on the vta.Congratulations chair chavez. I'm speaking as a parent of a teenager who lives in milpitas. I want to remind the board that we are setting the example that's really important for our young people. What's really important for us is to set the example to rate put our resources towards the values that we want them to have and that we have failed to have ourselves. That is the value for public transit, for communityinvolvement and for really looking at the long-term goal of not only saving this planet but also making sure that we are doing the things that are very structured and systemic about addressing climate change. It'sreally important to listen to the folks who have come here tonight who are using and necessarily need to use public transit to get to their jobs. What's important is also that we have youth that really can get into the lifelong habit of using transit who really want to. There is a generation of youth who are not interested in getting their first car like I was when I was 16. They are not interested in driving all over the lace and they are actually very actively taking public transit. When I theory allocation of measure b funds are moving away from public transit and building more highways, I find that distressing and that is a reallypoor example in terms of leadership especially on climate change. I urge you to think about reallocation in a different way, prioritizing not only for us but the ext generation. Thank you very much. Public speaker: hi, good evening. My name is jessica jenkins. I live in downtown san jose and for the last seven years I have worked in san jose for an attorney providing low cost services to residents. I'm here on my own. I'm physically impaired. I'm not able to drive a car. Vta and my own two feet are my primary form oftransportation. The fact that I live here independently and contribute to y community is only because we have relatively frequent and reliable public transportation. Unfortunately at times I am forced to useexpensive expensive ride share and when buses don't show up or when it causes me to miss connections or no safe way for me to access the but or wait for it. I'm here tonight to urge you nd many others to provide these funds towards public transit. As the population ages, there is going to be more people like me who are unable to drive because of disability and will need reliable public transportation in order to live our lives independently in the community we call home. Thank you very much. Public speaker: good evening, i'm hoi, I leadership in cupertino. I came from taiwan. When i'm here, I feel a sense ofcommunity when i'm around people instead of sitting in my own car in isolation. Also, when we have public transportation we can walk to the stations and that's good for our health. I have two kids and it's tiring to live in the area because we get stuck in traffic and when we have to drive our kids to places, it's tiring. It would be so much easier for families if kids can take buses to after school activities and they can go to the mall to meet their friends and will give them independence and confidence and freedom and so much more relaxing for parents too. It's time to really do something about the bad traffic that we are stuck in. We live in silicon valley and we deserve a better bus system than what we currently have. This will make a hugeimpact in our quality of life in the bay area. So I urge the board to consider improving the bus service through the measure b reallocation. Thank you.6:52 PMThank you very much. next speaker, please. ( calling names ).Public speaker: hi, i'm in charge of the program. How would you like to leave this program in the years. It'sreally crowded on the road and we need to think about the long-term solution which can e the public transportation or the buses and trains. I want to give you an example from coming from israel is the reality is public transportation. In the last years, they have added the train to a lot of cities nd now they changed he reality that a lot of people get to train and center of turns to by thinking big and have a vision, you canchange reality and you can change life for our children that in the next 50-100 years, we can still live here and not walk on each other and have less car accidents. I think this is the time to think about it and solve problems and think big like measure b or whatever funds to allocate to this and do it seriously and consistently. Thank you.6:54 PMThank you very much. next speaker, please. Chloe? Public speaker: all right. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is chloe wang, i'm a senior at milpitas high school. I want to tell you about how six periods when the timer ticks down and school is about to come out. I always watch those signs and as soon as the bell rings I run out the door ecause I want to get to the next bus. There is hundreds that rush to get on these buses very single day packed and squeezing into the bus. Students commute all the time. They commute during the school days, during the weekends for their passions, furthering things that matter to them. They go for science olympic and speech and debate and we don't stop commuting in the summer. We use the buses in the summer as well. I want to end with commuting for us isn't just a want, it's a need. It's a need for us youth for us future leaders, for future community members and it's a really important part of our lves. So I just want to end with this last thing. I ask you to keep us young folk in mind. Thank you. .6:55 PMThank you very much.6:56 PMGood afternoon, my name is carol. For most of my life I have lived in a bedroom with my family. 'm claustrophobic. As a hispanic and environmentalist, owning a car is not an option. I would like to encourage this board to declare a climate change that not only publicly states the support of a rapidtransition to a fleet of clean volcanos but also to prevent future cuts to public service throughout the county. Thank you.Thank you very much. next we have john.Good evening, my name is john. I want to speak towards reallocating measure b funds. And to declare climate emergency and rapid transit to lower emissions fleet. I'm attending school and use the public transit. I think the standards are very different in somewhere like vancouver compared to here in siliconvalley. So, I really think that vta can work its way towards that kind of frequency and quality of service. We do have money but it's going to wrong things like expanding our freeways and highways. Yeah, if you really want people to ride vta, it's not to look towards innovation and coming up with new fancy gadget.It's just to do what really works, improve the frequency. It actually works. Yeah, I think the answer isreally we can't look towards transit austerity and funding for these vehicles. We need to get the bread and butter down and reliable funding. Thank you. Public speaker: good evening, dave. I'm representing thesierra club loma chapter tonight for our 49 members of san mateo, santa clara and san bonito counties.Sierra club says ditto to our young people. Please acknowledge our climate emergency and provide better bus service. Find way. Thank you very much. .6:59 PMThank you. next speaker, please. Please. Public speaker: hello, my name is tahoe, I rely on the busservices evidence. Recently routr everyday. I'm going to speak on the behalf of our senior citizens who take the buses evidence and one I interviewed personally who said the bus is the only way she can get around town when her family is busy. I want to urge the board to please improve bus service and declare a climate emergency to support clean vehicles. The future of transit is one that can heavily impact many lives. I support better bus service because I know that more than 300,000 rely on this bus service. This is hard to come by for busy working families. Thank you. .7:00 PMThank you very much. daniel? Public speaker: hello again. I would also like to say that we have to declare a state of emergency on this climate crisis. If only we saw the nearly countless tons of carbon being emitted by our buses and if it's going object until 2040. Also it feels unhealthy when I stand next to these bus exhaustion when it pulls up for me. I can't imagine someone who has lung problems with asthma. Iwant to urge this board to consider improving bus service through a measure b reallocation to talk more later and to declare a climate emergency that not only states this board supports a rapid southern andimmediate transitions to a fleet of clean vehicles but also to prevent future cuts of bus service throughout the county. Thank you. .7:02 PMThank you. nguyen, did you want o speak to this or a future issue?I will go now. public speaker: i'm nguyen. I'm speaking for the climate. When I moved to santa clara countcounty, as if smoke and drought were not enough. At a bus shelter I saw a big poster. It said extreme weather is a new normal. There will be more droughts and bigger floods, be prepared, be flood ready. Thatwarning came from the water district. There is a 30 year lag between greenhouse gas emissions and their effects. The climate effects we are seeing today are from emissions 30 years ago. Things are not going to get better. What can vta do about this? Vta has cut bus service for 20 years. Adding more highway lanes is insanity. Vta has the opportunity to make the hugest cut in the county's no. 1 source of carbon emissions.Vta needs to cut carbon emissions. We are here to ask you to do that. We'll keep coming back until that isdone. Please don't delay the inevitable. We have run out of time. We need you to do the right thing. It is time to declare a climate emergency. Reallocate measure b funds to public transit right now. .7:04 PMThank you. public speaker: good evening, board members. My name is martina and I live in south sanjose. I'm a member of mothers of teens from south bay with over 100 supporters. From a personalexperience as a mother who works and is very stressful trying to get my son to all of his activities. I really wish you would expand public transit so he can et to school and weekend activities. San jose is to grow its population to $1. 3 million. This is to support residents from regional car transportation to reliable and convenient public transit. It is crucial to do this now. We have to support this goal and be carbon free.Since ehicle emphasis is the biggest source of these emissions. We should do it now and not wait until the future. Please do this for our children and theirs. Thank you. .7:06 PMThank you very much. next speaker, please. ( calling names ) public speaker: hi, as a resident and mother of students that take bus service, please improve your service. As a mother and grandmother, my husband and I are retired and we try to take public transit as much as possible. Recently when I was at a meeting, I was stranded at a bus stop because vta cut my bus schedule. How am I supposed to get to a meetingdowntown if my bus routes are cut? I guess I have to drive my car. How are we supposed to encouragepeople to get out of cars when public transportation in this county is so undependable and how are students supposed to get to school and class. Transit is the no. One contributor o greenhouse gas emissions in our area. Children need this service and need us to less depend on fossil fuels. Thank you very much.7:08 PMI appreciate your staff and working with them on a regular basis. You have a great team. I'm here to say ditto on the measure b and the environmental issues that you are going to hear about more. My thought isthat you are the valley transit authority. It would be nice to have the service match that made instead of downtown transit authority. I really need us to get routes out into every part of this county. Not ust the focus of downtown. You heard really great input from our graduate student from vancouver. Have other friends in vancouver with the statement that ten minutes is a long wait and mothers of students whocontinue that theme. If you can't reallocate some of the hundred million you have already spent on roads back into bus service. Let at least use our measure b money to support all of us. Thank you again for yourtime this evening. .7:09 PMThank you very much. public speaker: hi, good evening. I'm a san jose resident and live in supervisorchavez' district. Congratulations. We are over 2,000 members in our area and part of silicon valley andenvironmental justice. We are very concerned about the environment. E strongly recommend that you reallocate funds of measure b towards public transit. I have family and they don't want to come see me.Please, we like to think of ourselves as a world class area. Let's do our best to reduce greenhouse gassesin our city. We are having more and more spare the air days and our kids deserve a lot better than that.Thank you very much. .7:10 PMThank you. eugene bradley?Good evening, board members, this is eugene bradley and member of the silicon valley transit users. I strongly urge the board to reallocate measure b to instill more of the funds instead of just losing more than20 years. Ever since I have started going to these meetings, I have seen this service literally fall below service levels. They are the same as they were in the middle 1980s. Not very good when your population has grown from population since 2010. I come from new jersey where I didn't have to think about bus service. The buses ran every 10 minutes. Primarily the way I got around was this bus service and attended every 20 inutes and didn't have to worry about connections because they were always on time. In a nationwhere it lso builds highways. Does it make sense to anybody out here that vta would end a bus line at 330 and spend $300 million for a bus way on an expressway especially as our air looks more line los angelesdirtier everyday. How can you call this a bus transit? Let's do this. Two things. One, climate emergency.Don't just talk about it but back it p with actions with bus service. Let's do it now. Thank you. .7:13 PMBefore zoey comes up if we can have jamie, mia gatt, public speaker: hi. I'm a student at deanza college.Nobody has said ditto or the same to all the people that went before and everyone took the time to tell their personal stories to the board and people have carved out hours of their afternoon to be here and share their stories with you. People have been doing this for months. I have been coming to the boardmeetings for a couple months and been coming to them long before I have had to tell you to reallocate measure b funds and to declare climate acknowledge so buses in the future will not be cut. Thank you. .Thank you. public speaker: hi, i'm jamie mengden. My colead helen was unable to get here today becauseof lack of public transit and we were trying to get her a ride here today. Transportation s important to kids and not just because we need a ride. I'm here representing 3,000 local youth who marched with me onSeptember 20th because our local government is not doing enough. 3 if we don't do this now, we will live to see the apocalypse in my lifetime. I want to thank you for reconsidering your measure b funds at the last meeting. I appreciate you keeping an open mind and listening to our comments. I have to stick to the facts. 66% of greenhouse gas emissions is due to buses. We are short of the buses that measure a promised us. The study found that those who ride buses are in poverty. Mean while for every dollar that we invest in public transit, doesn't go to this service. If you increase the stops, you will increase the ridership.Public speaker: good afternoon, my name is mia. I'm from austria. I can remember one of the first questions I asked when I got here, I asked about public transportation. As a european citizen i'm used to take public transportation everywhere and they told me it wasn't good at all and I nearly hesitated anddidn't know what to think. How is it possible that we find ourselves in this ecological crisis and there are places where you can't find public transportation on a daily basis. There are quotes if you see streets, they will harvest cars. Today i'm urging the board to improve the entire public transportation in silicon valley.Our and your children and my future lies in your hands. We need to act now. Thank you. .7:17 PMThank you. public speaker: hi, my name is monica. I attend san jose state. I ask you to improve the fleetto busses. I have never owned a car in my life. Transit is becoming harder year after year to get around.That is really unacceptable considering that 40% of greenhouse gasses in santa clara county and san josewhere I live come primarily from cars. I appreciate the leadership that a lot of you have shown over climate change during the last years but it's time you improve this situation. It's time to stop cutting busservices. We need to get people moving in a much more sustainable way f we are going to combat this crisis. Please start taking some action. Thank you.7:18 PMNext speaker, please. ( calling names ) ( calling names ).7:19 PMWelcome, michael. public speaker: I live in cupertino. I take the us everyday. I grew up in a smaller city in tennessee. To me the service here is actually much much better. I'm really happy that i'm able to get around without a car entirely, just using the bicycle and bus or train. As a child, there is a place in eastern tennessee called the smokey mountain national park. If you go to the higher peaks of that park, you will find a forest of dead trees and those dead trees are dead because there is a large amount of acid rain that false there now due mostly to pollution from cars. So I just would like to urge you to not subsidize driving cars and automobile owner ship and subsidize public transportation and urban life to allocating these funds for highways. Thanks. .7:20 PMPublic speaker: my name is rob from milpitas. I would like to restate what was said before, we are in a climate emergency and we need to act like it's an emergency. Better allocation of the funds. Where are we getting the funds from? Roadways, bart extensions. The ig bucks seem to be going into the bart extension.The money going to expanding roadways is relatively much a waste based on what I have seen in milpitas because there is such a demand out there because we have a huge imbalances between all the jobscreated in this valley over the last ten years and the small amount of housing that's been created. So let's turn to the bart extension. Above grade 2 x, below grade 3 x. Unfortunately, the bart extension, the bartborough as I call it is 4 x. It's moving in the wrong direction and it is a big huge black hole for money.Especially when there is an alternative that can provide better service at $0. 04 on the dollar. Personal rapid transit technology should be taken seriously by this board as it has not in the past. Thank you for your time. .7:22 PMThank you, rob. public speaker: good evening, board. I would like to direct your attention by ourcongressman who states and speaks on the state of public transit. The congressman has observed something that each of us spike # -- speaking before you know. That over ridership can have egative outcomes for low-income and elderly and disabled population. I know that is true because I struggle a lotto get to school downtown from the east side and trying to take the bus here. The congressman does provide a solution which is first vta's recent reduction in bus services will benefit all riders and decrease to severe congestions that stresses and resolve all bay area residents. In the larger grand scheme of things as we get older and deal with more local fires, we must face the fact that our current way of life is unsustainable. The congressman cites that right now in southern california 43% of greenhouse gas emissions comes from the transportation sector, the exactly same sector that this board is supposed toover see and protect and preserve. That is not happening and that's why the congressman and I am urging you to at least adjust the transit service guidelines for buses that are not available for students and seniors and persons with disabilities. Public speaker: hi, I live in san jose but had to move to cupertino so I can take public transportation. Thousands of riders lives will be impacted since there will be fewer buses to commute to work and school. Also if there are more highways it will rise the car dependency for traffic ongestion problems and make it worse. In light of our current car transit system, there will be more impact on our environment such as it would increase air pollutions and greenhouse gas emissions, and the greenhouse gas emissions need to be cut rapidly in order to avoid the climate change. Meanwhile a well designed bus system will result in faster time and frequent service and near destination and housing andattractive facilities as well. And will make it attractive to the public. Therefore, I want to urge the board to declare a climate emergency and measure b allocations from highway and transit operations. Thank you.Public speaker: good evening, board members. I'm a student at deanza. Instead of studying at school I came to this meeting straight from classes to tell you that a lot of students at deanza are really lookingforward to what you are doing with the vta system. We want to thank you first of all for reconsidering from the last meeting and not cutting anymore bus routes from the vta. We do need you guys to help us and put more money into the vta by reallocating more funds and declare a climate emergency. In this one meeting, a lot of young activist have come out and spoken. The year ends in a month. That means a new decade is starting. A lot of us this past month have realized that we are no longer children. We arebecoming the voters of tomorrow and because of that, a lot of us have become more civically engaged and in the future we are going to rely on people that will represent us like you. I urge you to represent what a lot of our outh is supporting and maybe your positions will be safe. [ laughter ] I also want to say that because we are the new voters of tomorrow, we can also change the culture around the bus system. If so many of us are here supporting riding the bus, we can also encourage our future children, our future generations that look at the bus as a sustainable way of living. Thank you. .7:28 PMThank you. public speaker: good evening, i'm simon. I grew up on transit and now five years that I havelived here in the bay area. The changes to the bus service for campbell where I live and there is still a lot of room for improvement. Here is still gaps in this service when service change takes effect on the 28.These changes will amount to three things. One, a loss to economic opportunities to support our local smallbusinesses. Creating a loss of opportunity to create new connections with people to make for better neighbors and also an opportunity to ensure a healthier environment for all of us transit riders. I recommend the board reallocate part of measure b funding to boost transit service throughout the county and also declare a climate emergency, strengthen our community and our environment. You can do it.Thank you. Public speaker: damian. Good evening, even though I drive a car for transportation, I wish Icould ride the buses for transportation. Reallocating measure b funds for the environment. I spoke forreallocating measure b for transportation. Thank you. .7:30 PMThank you very much. michael? public speaker: ladies and gentlemen of the vta board. I stand here before you tonight to ask for the reallocation of measure b funds to improve public transit so that I like many other students who depend on the bus lines in this city May keep lines like the 65 that you have cut. Might I add you cut them due to membership being down. Hmm. It's interesting because those numbers were taken from summer on a line used mostly by students. I'm not an activist like the other people who have spoken here tonight. I'm a music major at san jose state. But that being said, I am a student and 'm hurting. My family can't afford to buy another car to take me to school. We are struggling with both of them working. That's not something we thought we would have to do but it's something we have to do now because prices are going up and we can make ends meet but we can't have the luxuries that other people have. I understand why you might want to put the moneys to build more highways. I get it. You think more roads, more people can take them and it will be less crowded. Here is the problem like other people have said. There is just more traffic on all the other roads. Once again, I ask you to reallocate measure b funds from highway development to public transit. Thank you or your attention tonight. Have a good rest of your evening. .7:33 PMThank you. andrew boone. Public speaker: buenas tardes. My name is andrew boone. It's incredible that we eep coming here for years saying listen to us. We want buses not more cars on the streets. I came here and it's the same thing saying we want more buses, not in the cars. What did you do? What are you doing now? You are ignoring us. How is it not obvious. Every year and nothing has happened. Now that you are talking about that. Never appears on your agenda. Where is it? You don't want to talk about it. We need to declare an emergency to our climate. And promise us that you will not continue cutting the services to our buses. The cost of is too high. It is thousands of dollars. There is no public transportation. Hear ourappropriate call for increasing public transportation. It's a catastrophe of climate change that we are at.The entire bay area is burning down due to wildfires. We have to shutdown the electricity now. What'sgoing happen in 50 years. .7:35 PMThank you, andrew..Thank you..Okay we do not have any public hearing items on item 7. Now we are on committee reports. Item 7. 1.Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter) .Good evening, chair o'neill, vice-chair chavez, members of the board. Congratulations to cindy chavez chair elect. At our November 13, 2019 meeting the pac meeting considered four items on your agenda tonight.The first is the consent agenda item 8. 4. Measure b program fiscal year 2021, budget modifications. The committee generally favored the committing of the funding reallocation not able to pass the item due toabstention and recusals. Next the committee received an update of 2016 board and members express more information on the caltrain grade separation implementation plan. Third, the committee had anotheropportunity to provide input measure b innovative transit model programs grant criteria. As the staff clarified changes made, the motion to recommend approval vote failed to 6 ayes, 1 no. Finally the transientoriented development policy on item 1 on your regular agenda and created an adoption of the policy with the following amendments. 1, ncome averages for the affordable housing policy or the option to useincome levels in a local city inclusionary housing ordinance to a maximum average of 60% and any to be use for affordable households between 80 and 20% of the median income for overall housing production.And any units for the households of the area median income should be focused on affordable ownershipwith advance to approval by the board of the director's prior to any developing authors. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions. Thank you.7:38 PMThank you very much, marty. that takes us to.Madam chair, just a point of order. I want to ask for an item to be agendaized at the next meeting. Would that be more appropriate at 10. 3 which has to do with the item that speakers have requested which isdeclaration of climate emergency and about the entities that have adopted the similar declaration of san jose. Ours at the county, I think would be a great starting point, I can submit that template. Should Iformally do that at 10. 3 or take it out of order?7:39 PMWhy don't we do that at 10.3.That's fine. i'm just trying to accommodate the speakers. .(pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (hendricks) our last meeting was November 14th. Two thingsreally interesting for you. We had a long discussion about the revised transient oriented development policy and the committee has recommended its adoption. The committee did talk about the same quality ofaffordable market rates are the same and long discussion about whether public agencies should be building market rate housing and subsidized housing. Pac is going to be making a suggestion and recommendation probably through the governance change to take a look at making the pac chairman an ex- officio member.The next pac meeting was scheduled for December and that meeting has been canceled and the next meeting will be in january. .7:40 PMThank you very mch. chairpersons' report. (verbal report) report will be made by member carr. .Thank you, madam chair.The tems 8.3, 8.6 and 8.9 and 9. 1 on today's consent agenda and the revise transient oriented development policy and we ecommend board approval for this policy and reviewed regular agenda item 9.2 for the integrated transit service model for the program graph criteria. The committee had otherrecommendations for this item and when we get to this item, we will share those recommendations. That concludes my report. .7:41 PMThank you, member carr.Chairpersons' report. (verbal report) .Thank you. the committee met and considered items 8. 7 and 8. 9 and recommended board pproval for this policy and also reviewed regular agenda item and program draft criteria and I will share the recommendations for that item when we get to that later. That concludes my report. .7:42 PMThank you very much. .The transit and safety security met.We will move to the capital program committee.Hi, the capital program committee met and we considered the budget for the 2020 measure b programs which is 8. 4 on your consent agenda. The committee met and considered the corridor capacity at this time and whether it jeopardizes future service. He board has lready allocated funds for this program and category should fund this service. The committee also requested caltrain to consider crossings into it's corridor wide separation policy and recommended board approval of this item. I know marcella is here and james to address any questions or concerns. The committee also received several updates including bart status for phase 1 and 2 and 237 expresslanes expansion of projects. The general manager will be covering these two items. The suspense builds. .7:43 PMI will provide a report on the finance committee and our auditor is going to be moving onto new opportunities. We wanted to thank him publicly for the services he's provided to vta and to our community.He set a high level of professionalism that we appreciate and we hope that we will be just as fortunate in the future with his successor. We wish you all the best, cory. [ applause ] for item 7. 4. We are a report for the diridon station. Board member peralez. .7:44 PMYes, we met on November 15th, we received a presentation on the san jose diridon integrated station pan, item 9. 6 on tonight's agenda. Robust public comment and there was support for elevated platforms andrequest to continue the i-87 viaduct and Mr. Diridon initiated himself through future technologies and routes to downtown and location of the airport connector, bart connecters and connection to the light rail.The next meeting is scheduled for January 31st of next year. .7:45 PMThank you very much. that takes us to the ad hoc board enhancement committee chairperson, chair mcallister. Committee chairperson's report. (verbal report) (mcalister) you have a report for us tonight?Yes, madam chair. we had a meeting on the 18 and focused on the status of the governance assessment which include framework of board governance fundamentals, analysis for each city group, population, salestax receipts and ridership. Our next meeting is Friday December 20, 8:00 a. M. . Dedicated solely to the presentation of review of our final governance assessment report and will reserve a maximum of five hours for this meeting. I don't know why we got five hours. There is a lot of information we are going to continue to look at. This report went nto quite a bit of depth, a lot. Following the presentation of this report, the board enhancement will begin this process of evaluating the recommendations and consider anyrecommendations to the board. It has been very indicating and enlightening. It's quite exciting. --.7:47 PMThank you very much, Mr. Mcallister. That takes us to item 8 consent agenda items 8. 1 through 8. 16 and I want to note a couple things, for the modification of 2021 and the 3 must be b projects and programs. 8.9 and 8. 11 amendment for the memorandum of understanding for highway 17 express service. We are adviced to know that the 84308 applies and in your reading folder and your binder. Did you want to say anything more about that?7:48 PMThank you. on 8.1 and 8.9, they eceive a stipend from the county and vta, under government code section and they are not required to recuse themselves from this item. .Thank you very much. we have several speakers what who would like to speak on the consent agenda items. .May I add because eople May want to respond to it. Items 9. 1 is the revised vta transient oriented development policy which I know went through all of our committees. I want to recommend that we put it on consent with the exception of item attachment c which deals specifically ith the affordable housing so staff has time to work on that. There appears to be consensus on everything else and I would like to put it on consent particularly given that we have other presentations that need to be made tonight.7:49 PMThe appendix c would be going back for staff modifications and back through to the committee process so the board members and public will have a chance to weigh in. .Thank you..Do you need a motion to make that change?So moved..All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? adding 9.1 to the consent agenda. Thank you very much for that change. I don't see kevin.Blair, would you like to come forward, please?7:50 PMTo try to fit in many items on the consent calendar. To speak to item 9. 6, to offer a few thoughts about caltrain diridon. Thank you or building the station onsidering the high-speed rail May have changed in the 150 years. Can there -- can you still consider a high speed rail extension options from tracy to merced, from merced to tracy and an express rail line straight up from interstate 5 to the west side of interstate 5?Hese are ideas I think you are going to hear from other people in the future. This can be a time to be prepared for that. To also offer bout the i'm in favor of two lines coming to san jose for the freewaysystem. I'm not much in favor of the caltrain and all the other things as one big high line on a high raised one track thing. I think it can be handled on several track issues. And the report, I think it can be a great effort. With all the negative talk about our system, that could be a positive report that speaks on human rights issues. We can do something very positive here in san jose and santa clara county. I hope the eir report can reflect that. Good luck with paratransit issues. .7:52 PMThank you. directors, my name is andrew boone and candidate for city council district 6. My understanding on item 8. 4, for 2020 and 2021 budget odifications for 2016 measure b programs are very minor budget modifications. They don't change very much what was on the previous plan. What you could do instead would be major modifications of how you spend measure b sales tax dollars. That is absolutely what thisboard needs to do. It isn't 3 going to address any of our issues to continue on the plan to spend three 1/2 times as much money on widening highways for more car traffic, building brand new highway interchanges than what you are spending on the bus service and bus and light rail service. We need bold action, you like to talk about bold action and what do we get? Tiny changes in our plans which are driving us straight intocatastrophic climate change. It's a fact that your decisions on this board make significant impacts on the world's climate. You might think that santa clara county is a small place in the world, only 2 million peoplelive here. We have a huge impact on what other cities, counties and regions do, huge. We and everyone else call this place silicon valley. One of the leaders of the world in innovation. Yet what does this vta board of directors do? You continue to maintain the policy of dumping way more money for expanding highways for car traffic. Look at what's already happening, wildfires are threatening california. There was a massive flood. It flooded all of the city of sacramento and created a giant lake in the central valley. That can easilyhappen again. Mega droughts are going to happen again and they are under climate change. You must take bolden action now and stop widening the ighways. Stop pumping greenhouse gasses into the atmosphere. .7:54 PMThank you. with that, is there a motion to approve the consent calendar?I would like to make a motion to approve the consent calendar and a comment.7:55 PMMy comment isn't that on item 8. 4 and on item 8. 16, we are talking about measure b and I just wanted to let my colleagues know that a couple meetings ago, I made aunder areas of concern to look at measure b and look at how we want to invest in our bus systems long-term. I'm supporting this but with theknowledge that we are having a conversation about that. Also, I wanted to clarify that with the express buses, no action would negatively impact the buses to date. The urgency to hear this in January is not a problem or us, right? I was talking about in general about measure b and 8. 4 and 8. 16. We are not taking any action. I was responding and I heard someone in the community earlier when they spoke and I didn't find it. I just wanted to make sure I said it out loud. Thank you. .7:56 PMMayor liccardo? # [ off mic ].Thank you for that..Great. any other recusals? comments? Okay, all in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.7:57 PMAny opposed? do we need to get a count for the budget? Okay, great.All right. we will go onto our regular agenda. We have taken care of 9. 1 on the onsent calendar and looking at addendum c which is language related to affordable housing in the future. Stay tuned for that.And then before we go to 9. 2, we moved item 9. 5 because that would better inform our discussion. 9. 5.Information item - receive an update on vta's innovation program. This is a follow-up on the future workshop. I want to thank you for the presentation and bringing a speaker tonight. .7:58 PMGary, chief information and technology operator. So what we are going quickly talk through tonight is I willgive a quick recap on what happened to the board's about the future of transportation and comments from that. Ruth will then really quickly talk about our transportation disruption and impacts on congestion and 3some of the things she did with the federal government. Then I would have a real quick update on what we have been doing over the last 12 months on nnovation or vta. So speaking in terms of an early 2019, we went off and had our board workshop. The board members expressed support specifically around how we can cost effectively impact first and last mile and develop disruption technologies and how would vta approach innovation and how innovation could basically help our plan for deploying innovations and thenthe board also expressed some objectives that they wanted us to go look at and work with. So during the workshop, we had 10 specific objectives that the board directed and so work has begun on a number of these fronts. The next generation transit study in rfp is in the process right now and we have a number of new innovations and we are applying looking at how we can apply innovations as an example to the bart to silicon valley project and we'll actually talk to a number of different innovations hat we have been working on. I would like to now introduce ruth cox, the ceo of prospect of silicon valley for the last three years.Ruth is now in the process of we are launching her speaking career. [ laughter ] so not only did she run prospect silicon valley which is a non-profit organization but also worked for the obama administration as the general services administration. She was the 'pacific rim' that managed the 'pacific rim' region. Shehad over 1,000 employees of both civil and government employees and ran about a $1 billion budget.Before doing that, she also worked for a number of high tech companies such as hewlett packard and computers --.8:01 PMThank you for having me here today and I really appreciate being here and working with the valley transportation authority. You have some very unique challenges. I hope to stimulate some thinking about it although many of the folks who spoke here were pretty eloquent about their ideas on how things could beimproved. I took a look at the cmpp presentation a couple months ago and the statement about the land use plan is a good plan and you have to think holistically about how the county operates and how peoplelive before you can really develop a reasonable transportation plan and it would dictate how transportation is provided. And faster transit is essential. We heard that repeatedly already today. The challenges that you face is that we are already clogged obviously on our highways and our surface streets. I can't tell you howmany times I have been stuck on willow road for an hour trying to get to the 101 and we are anticipating a substantial job growth in the next 10-20 years. How do you accommodate that growth when we are struggling to support the population that we already have. You have a suburbanized environment. All of these strong cities together. In san jose, it's a big city but it's spread out. So you you have suburban residences and you are going to work on suburban campuses. That is not an easy problem to solve. But if you don't solve it with creative first and last mile services and other options, you are never going to be able to provide a meaningful or good quality of life for the folks who live and work here. It's that simple.So, I bet everyone can move their offices to san jose but they are all over sunnyvale and mountain view and they are not always on a main drag, right? So it's not a simple thing. You have a lot of intra-and inter county dependency. It's a very unique challenge but one i'm sure the vta is up for solving. I was asked to talk about what is our future? The future is whatever you make it to be. I think it's eally important to have a vision. I don't know if you guys have gone through a vision and looked at 20 years from now. What would the transportation infrastructure look like 20 or 30 years from now because if you had that thenevery decision to go left or right or straight when you had a decision point would be easier to make. There was also this idea that if you declare your future, and start operating as if you are in the future, you will get there. If you continue to incrementally change the past, that's where you are going to remain. It does require a paradigm shift in your thinking to solve this problem. So the first thing I wanted to mention is about intentionality, it's that declaration. You have to make public transit a priority. And align policy with desired outcomes and redefine public transit to be flexible fast and fun. We talk about intentionality. Wetalk about the speed and having faster service8:05 PMIt's critical and one of the ways to do that are our dedicated lanes. It's interesting that other places even the city of houston has 100 miles of dedicated bus lanes. It's something that can be done. It's being done in a lot of cities and it as a huge impact. Then there is an issue about for the purposes of congestion,having some regional coordinated traffic or congestion management system. I think it's for somebody who has traveled from walnut creek down to san jose on a regular basis and traveling through all of thosemunicipalities and if you are having a problem in one place, you are going to have a problem with the city and after and without those regions, it's going to be difficult to meaning fully manage traffic. I think the other thing is you can't just manage your way out of the problem that we have by doing traffic management software. You have to take cars off the road. You have to get single occupancy vehicles offthe road, it's that simple. So, how do you do that? You have to work with employers. You have to in sent employees -- not to drive to work. We have been doing some experiments on having multimodal transportation and testing with the city of mountain view and palo alto and other cities to see if they canget some momentum with these government agencies and employees in government agencies to step back and start using other options to get to work. So, I think it's good for it to start with public agenciesbecause we are the policy people and you need to lead by example. So we did that at gsa. You know, gsa, every federal agency has a sustainability plan. We were very serious about ours and gsa manages 360 million square feet of real estate across this country. So, we can have an impact. I think you as if you look at the municipalities and other government agencies within the county of santa clara, probably makes up a good enough portion of the workers and such that you can have an impact by adopting these principles foryourself. We decided to eliminate free parking at gsa. We didn't lose any employees, nobody quit over it.They weren't necessarily happy to begin with but we gave them transit passes and we subsidized public transit and found other ways to get folks to work. We did it and hen other agencies started to adopt the same policies. So I think it's, I would highly encourage and it's interesting in talking with these cities that we did this experiment with on this multimodal transit application. They were unwilling to do that. The cities were unwilling to take away people's parking. You are not going to change behavior without making radical shift. I would encourage you to think through what the impacts might be and do it in a way where people would experience the benefit of it. There is an option to again set by example instead of all theseparking lots, take those parking lots and turn them into multimodal transit hubs and make it easier for people to take up a bike or scooter or some other shared ride option to transit backbone and use a similaroption on the back end to get to their work location. If you use that land going back to land use planning for purposes of the encouraging use of public transit, I think you will have a positive impact there. Then ofcourse the coordinated flexible cost-effective first and last mile services. It doesn't do any good to have these services if someone has to wait 20 minutes for the next connection. So the mom trying to get home to make dinner for kids doesn't want to wait 20 minutes and don't want to waste an hour to go through some neighborhood that when they want to get home. So what ther options can be provided for first and last mile services that make it easy for that person to say, i'm going to take caltrain and take a shuttleservice and is going to get me home in 15 minutes. I don't have to spend another 30 minutes riding around. There is an option to repurpose under utilized assets. I know you have thought about that and you know, the light rail system instead of I have heard people say they should tear it out and do something different. The truth of the matter is that having light rail and bart and caltrain and buses and shuttleservices, it all has to, you need all of them and they need to work together. I think you can have a really positive effect with that. There is the other thing that I noticed is they keep talking about transit dependent communities. Well, I think from a marketing perspective, you need to look beyond transit dependentcommunities. I was not a transit dependent person coming from san jose to walnut creek but I would have been a happier person if I didn't have to drive down to san jose. I think people wouldn't need public transit if there was better public transit. It does take to make that paradigm shift and take steps with the futureyou want to realize. We can talk about the housing options and if they are given to a bill close to public transit hubs so you are building up instead of building out. A good example of a place that's done this iswashington d. C. If you look at the suburban traffic stops at deanna or rockville and bethesda and maryland, they have all built condominiums and multiuse residential and there is so much activity now around those hubs. That's what needs to happen. Then I think people can walk to public transit. You can mandate that new construction reduce the number of parking spaces for housing units. You can revisit theissue of bart. It's not too late to reconsider bringing bart down the peninsula and to some of these newer communities that are starting to get big and those that are getting down the gilroy and morgan hill and places like that. I think you should bring that issue up again, personally. So redefined public tansit. I think you have to reintroduce it to the market. This is a marketing issue and not a technology issue. Not sayingthat technology isn't an important aspect of addressing this challenge. I have been a technologist my hole career and there is more than one way to doing this. One of them is you have to make it fun. You have tomake it competitive. You know, you can game it and there are lots of things that you can do to reintroduce the concept of public transit so it has a new image and it has an attractive usage so people want to use itand it will ultimately give them a better quality of life. Thank you very much for listening. Gary will take over. .8:14 PMSo what have we been doing? one of the things is how we apply innovation. We look at innovation kind of three different ways, short-term agile cases and medium and bigger impact. At first agile changes looking at the easier application to the transit app, improving the rti performance, realtime informationperformance, our interactive 3 signs in the county building. Our medium term on technologies and vehicle to grid and reengineering our system to be more reliable and to provide a lot better quality and meet theneeds of our customers. And then on the long-term which we'll talk about is we'll have one long-term project which is our autonomous vehicle project which is really more of a how to make a vehicle accessible.So in terms of the office of innovation, after the workshop, nuria reengineered our office and we have a work group with scott and myself and this working group and we report as far as on innovation directly tonuria. And then we went off and built a strategy road map philosophy, process and a whole work plan for our innovation program, and then we made sure that all of the work tasks and the process all matches and is linked to our business strategies. So everything is aligned. And then what are some of the projects that we've been doing, one is the vehicle grid integration project which is how to better manage our electric aswe continue to grow and expand our electric bus fleet which is our plan is over time they will be zebus, thanking to the state of california. This example has a lot of people from southern california. And we have devices and trapeze, anova, cal start that are some of the players working together on it. Then we have the smart micro grid and energy storage. What we have learned in terms of from managing the electric buses and looking at energy, we identified them having a smart grid and being able to store energy. Wecan better manipulate the energy and being able to then use our solar energy ore effectively in the future as we xpand our electric bus fleet. Then we are working on an nsf grant and also partners with the university prospect and pg & e and a number of other vendors. On vehicle safety, we added mobile i, model 630 to 100% of our paratransit fleet of 132 vehicles. For the next 12 months, we'll be able to seewhat impact the mobile I collision voiding system will have on the safety performance and working with mobile I on the shear plus and will receive the fourth generation of that product and will be able to testthat out out of 2020. And we also can't do everything. So we partnered as an example with houston metro and houston metro is testing the smart drive collision avoidance system. So our intent is to be testing thegeneration for mobile i. They will be testing and documenting the smart drive collision avoidance system and we are going to share information to see what system actually works better. We can't take care of 3ourselves but partnering with our partners to be able to get a bigger footprint. Innovations and pilotsdefinitely cost money and time and energy. Then for our bigger goal project, we have been working onbuilding an accessible electric autonomous vehicle. So the whole idea is it's a multistep. It will take many years to develop this into an ctual product that will be used for a paratransit and first and last mile use forthe whole idea would be that is the plan to try to cut the cost of per trips for these for the paratransit and first and last mile so that way we can afford to put out more vehicles and be 3 able to provide a much more cost-effective first and last mile and paratransit service. And with that, we are open for questions. .8:20 PMHank you very much. I really appreciate that. Are there questions? Vice-mayor jones? Board member mcallister?Can you go to slide 7, please. It says rethink and european approach, what is that?It's what I was describing earlier. If you go to munich or amsterdam as an example. They blend the light rail and use it in a way that compliments the other public transit options. It's extensive. So it's not just like one street. It's lots of different routes and going to different parts. It kind of goes how it spoke in and out.They use that light rail in order to cover territory that might be more difficult to cover like with a subway.8:21 PMIs it efficient?Very efficient. I was in europe and paris and amsterdam. I used public transit the entire time I was there. I used the buses, trains, it's very efficient. .Thank you.Member rennie?I have some comments. do you want to take some comments after?Yes. I have a question. I would like to follow up on director mcallister. Some of us have been looking at going to different conferences or reading things and talking about are we at a point where particularly here where we don't have an extensive light rail system. Whether we should be looking at some of these next generation buses that are being designed and where you could still have either use the existing right-of-way we have or have protect specific lanes for buses. That would almost function as light rail. Do you see a benefit to extending the fixed track systems as opposed to maybe looking at these next generation rubber tire vehicles?8:22 PMI think as long as hey are electric, you are in good sape, but one of the things that is interesting to note is that some of these autonomous vehicles, you can get them as pods that link together and they can comefrom different parts of residential neighborhood and pick everybody up and link together and go down a transit route on a main line and disburse to the campuses where people are working. I think there are those kinds of options, those things use wheels, yeah. I don't think you have to have light rail. But if you do have light rail, the question is how do you make it more fundamental and connected better to your other transit option so it's more utilized. .8:23 PMThank you. any other questions? If not, I will go to comments from community. For this item we have blair, daniel, monica, scott and andrew boone, roland and eugene bradley. If you can lineup, please.8:24 PMPublic speaker: hi in what seems as important data for technology, this item already working towards among its many things that this item will be working towards. I hope the vta cab b can e somewhat enthusiastic about the idea of open guidelines and policies. To give an example, I have been fairlyimpressed of the efforts of vta to create a policy guideline for data technology at this time. I hope t is becoming more clear how good open public policies in no way limits, hinders tech inventiveness or give away his secrets and an important tool about tech itself. And creates a more sustainable and democraticcommunity future. That almost naturally works towards the idea of piece and better human ideals and can ask to leave ideas to often create war. With now years of guidelines in many areas, we can begin to better address the shock and awe in the world with southern california in 2019 and with the years of good practice that people should know what to expect when working with santa clara county in the future. Thank you. .8:25 PMThank you. next we will have daniel. Public speaker: hello, again. In last board meeting I spoke about the need to preserve but routes 81 and 65. About how often I would come across crowds of riders in creating this testimony to this diversity. And this country's first mile out of many one. About how the old, the disabled, people ith children and students like me depend on these buses everyday. Last time I spoke about how the buses bring customers from across county to local businesses. I now remember both stops at train stations with 81 being at the historic one at the santa clara county police department headquarters or the one in the state and diridon. For many, these buses a trip home after a long day at work and or many, the first impression that they have of us that are across the ventures of the county. We are a worldleader in technology. A world class on parts as previously mentioned. We need to start acting world class by forming this vta to a world class public transportation system like the buses nd tubes of london. I can't express enough the need for this and to allow the cuts over the years. Thus I now encourage to board to reallocate the buses to save the bus routes 65 and 81 and improve an overall approved service in santa clara county. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, my name is monica allen again. I really appreciate this presentation and with the emphasis n advertising and speeding up and reducing the number of solar vehicles on the road, but I do have some concerns about the constant focus on innovation and innovative solutions when a solution already exist with us. I don't take at a public transit regularly but I do. There isalso a huge gap in services and certain areas that make it difficult to get around. Transit is something that I encourage you to all do because this is a transit agency. You probably have the same problems that I do.All of these problems are solvable. Buses working by humans can work well too. You can give all buses this priority and create new and local bus routes and make our streets safer for pedestrians and cyclist and work to ake this safer. You can do this faster without making too many changes. Please consider changing measure b to prioritize public transit as soon as possible. There are things that you can do to make transit better right now. We don't have to wait for autonomous or flying pods on other solutions that don't existyet. I wanted to encourage you all to consider these things and hopefully make some changes and create a better future for transit for all of us. Thank you.8:30 PMI would like to look at one example that cut through traffic through neighboring schools. My question is this: does the eir over crossing measure the level of service metric to assess environmental harm. I would also like to address the elief held in some places that uber and later autonomous vehicles will leavealleviate congestion. Public speaker: thank you, my name is andrew boone, a candidate for santa claracounty. Some of these are not practical and in the sense that they don't exist and May not exist. Like robot buses, that don't exist. It's good to talk about the future but we need to solve problems right now. There is an old technology, buses driven by humans that will meet the goals that you are talking about faster transit ervice for providing transit for people that don't have another option to get around like the elderlyand children and people with disabilities. The solution is that buses that people drive. It's not really innovative for everywhere else but for the vta board of directors. Another what would be innovative here is but only lanes. This has been innovative for many years. This is the one of few things that vta had going for it that was a really smart idea. Take two of the six lanes on camino real and use the transit signal pre-emption to slash this between palo alto and san jose. That was a massive improvement cutting a half hour on the trip.8:34 PMPublic speaker: eugene bradley. I echo the comments of the speakers. Also to the idea of spending this with bart and what is known as caltrain. And also the high-speed rail, there is already plans to expand caltrain service that are coming up in the near future. So I have always been known o believe that I always believe in the future, don't get me wrong. I also believe the future is now. That now in this case with vta,you have buses driven by humans. Just like humans led by john courtney. That is the future now. The grid lock and if you have never been on any of these highways, everyone of these traffic jams that you hearabout, those are really protest from people forced into their automobile because the buses and light rail are too slow to get them where they are going immediately. Of course what's not helping matters when you see places like palo alto and sunnyvale that block the cities bus lanes. You can't ocus on having poor transit and blocking these solution. Everybody, vta and these solutions have to do a better job considering the future being now and that is now buses and not more highways. Thank you. .8:35 PMRoland? public speaker: i'm going to to try not to be too technical here. As you know I come from europe.And whatever is there in the last 30 years is that you are using the wrong technology for a particular applications in many cases. Nobody really understand what bart is good at or what the light rail is forelectrified rail. An example. The light rail, if you use it for ten miles, I wouldn't dream of coming downtown from my house by driving. It doesn't make any sense. But having to go all the way up to the vta from there that's a problem because of this is a wrong technology which is why I try to bring this here. If i'mgoing san jose, why am I going downtown. It a different technology. Now bob's suggestion is non-sensical.The biggest problem you have with bart, you have -- an operation from one system to the other. You have cross rail in london but t's working because it's not using automated operations. They are blending witheverything. The central zone de you have automated operations and it's previously just like you. That's a problem all along. People don't see what the technology oes and using it properly. This bart system is too long. The only hing is in the tube in san francisco and oakland. There is no justification for that. The only justification would be when you get into san jose you get into the tunnels. Not all the way.8:38 PMThank you. I don't see any other cards from the public. Mayor liccardo wanted to bgin. [ off mic ]The next generation high capacity transit study, we got the rfp went out on the street, we've not gotten five vendors who have responded and will now be reviewing those and our intent is to have them come inand talk to us the first or second week of january, and then will be having hopefully people actually doing the study sometime in the March timeframe. [ off mic ]8:40 PM> member rennie?Thank you. similar to mayor liccardo's comments. We need o find innovative ways of getting them back fast on them again. We do want to focus innovation that way. We don't want to throw money on more buses that go slower. I did want to say, ms. Cox, I love your title, climate change consultants. Brilliant saff.Thank you, staff. I had a few ahas. I attended the transit conference recently in monterey and our chair was there and our general manager and director jones and director mcallister and Mr. Larson were all there. one of the things that I really learned was around and you already started showing us innovation around how do we deal with the bus charging. The buses run most all day. You have about six hours which you have to charge the whole fleet. We have to build our own power plant to be able to do that. So i'mreally happy to see you thinking about innovation to somehow solve that problem where we are going to be stepping into it. We are not going to have that whole fleet at once but we need to start to think about how we'll innovate. I want us to give kudos on how we are starting all of that. Another aha interestingidea. I went to a session where there was a whole panel with other transit agencies that have the same problem with us with declining declining ridership and the same changes and one idea I heard them talk about which I thought was a neat idea was on one of the routes they had to lose is they had a deal with lyft where lyft would give the same cost to the people that rode the bus if they were coming from somelocation that was a loss on the bus line. I don't know the exact details but I thought it was an innovative idea to back fill on those buses. So I definitely wanted to share that idea. The third big aha was on the autonomous vehicles and I attended a session on that and what they were saying is we are very very very far from a car or a bus being able to just drive around on the regular streets. We are closer to being able to have a vehicle without a driver run on a set route where it knows where its going. I guess one of the big problems is entrance locating itself so it's got to have someway if it's in an area of a ig field it can't figure out where it was kind of thing. If a cat steps on the road, this vehicle wouldn't be able to move and so far from that that autonomous vehicles doesn't mean what a lot of us think it means like bus drivers think my god I May lose my job, but maybe in 50 years they May lose their job and they might be retired by them.My question is going to one of the solutions is having infrastructure on all of the light polls poles for thesesignals. The levels are different and we are trying something at the va hospital that maybe a short set track which is pretty easy to move people around. I think you mentioned in your presentation about neighborhoods. So now a neighborhood means somehow we need to have a set track in neighborhoods. Or how far are we going away from just a set route for something or maybe even a fixed track with a out a lot of obstacles. I think transit is getting better. On a set route versus an on demand route but an on demand route with a very geo fenced targeted area that we are not that far 3 away from. Today, wamo proveseveryday that very consistently efficiently and not just on a route and they are getting better and better.And the 5 g as it gets deployed and being able to geo fence r relocate themselves to the multi-towers will also mprove this. There are lots of technologies that are coming out in the next couple years that will make the whole autonomous vehicle thing look more reasonable and to be able to actually do a lot more things than it can do today. .8:46 PMOkay, thank you.> Mr. Carr?Thank you, I wanted to ask about a signal pre-emption. Where are we in doing that? Do we need more cooperation with the cities?As a matter of fact tre was a meeting with the cities today working on signal pre-emption and working with cal tran. Also on 84, they are doing an expansion of their signal pre-emption through there. We have a bit of work we have been doing. We are trying to do more intelligent signal pre-emption which is not putting radios on all of our vehicles but at our intersection. The two radios have to work, but when one quitsworking, how do you know. We have one where you take our realtime information and we provide our latitude and longitude where the bus is and the route information provide that to the city or to the vendor who is working with the city in this particular case might be sign wave, and it basically then goes and it knows now that our bus is going downel down -- el camino and now know that system. We are pilotingthat today. .8:48 PMIs there a better example where the cities need to be more engaged with this?We have a very active its intelligent transportation system. We meet almost monthly. David kobeyashi is running that 3 for us and working with the cities to better understand what technology they are growing and trying to better understand how we can get our intersections connected because in many cases, a lot of our cities like san jose lmost every intersection is connected to a control center where a lot don't have that luxury. So we first need to get them connected whether that is a wireless or physical connection. Once we do tat, we can start taking it to the next level where we can also start to have city to city connection.So as traffic signal from one city can talk and be able to then create a real corridor to be able to move traffic through multiple cities properly. .8:49 PMI would imagine a lot of our cities are going to talk about the expense of doing things like that. Is there grant funding that we can go after that we can help our smaller cities?There is some measure b money in the system for that, but, no, we are working as a group as all the city together to try to identify funding that we can help to expand and improve as well as working with mtc onbeing able to do that. .8:50 PMI appreciate it..Mr. Peralez?Yah, thank you very much, chair. First off I wanted to just highlight i'm excited about the opportunity of sort of intensifying our use of our light rail corridors. I think that is a really really great opportunity when you look along one of the actually fastest part of the corridor hich is the 87 which you very rarely see atrain because they are moving quickly and nothing, nobody is using it. There is a great opportunity along the corridor to make better use of our right-of-way with other forms of public transit. I look forward to that. One of the things that struck me and I appreciate you mentioning it and what gsa did and it's sitting here on the screen is lead by example and what decisions could be made personally to spur that. In this regard we talk about parking spaces for employees. I know all the employees are looking like what? Butincentivizing along with it. For instance in san jose, we can get our clipper ards to utilize public transit which I do personally as well and I know actually our ceo nuria as well does ride the ride, walk the talk if you will. And unfortunately though, city of san jose with the number of passes that we offer, I don't have the number on hand but I imagine one of our vta staff members could pull it up rather quickly to see how pitiful it is with the users with the passes we offer up, but yet our parking spaces for our city garage arenow continually getting full by the 9:30 hour, the early arriving employee, you are out of luck of the parking garage right across from city hall. We actually do have a fair amount of employees that live closedistance or at least within public transit. Being in downtown san jose fairly accessible and will obviouslybecome even more so in the future. But yet, we have not been able to really spur that ridership of public transit and get people out of single occupancy occupancy vehicles ourselves s well. I imagine you can say the same for vta workers but I might imagine it's a little bit better for the ridership here. I'm curious, nuria, what the agencies say and feel free to comment as well on ideas like this and how sit that we at vtacan be an example and obviously because our board is made up of elected officials from the county then vta being the example, we can take that back to our city and continue that example along the lines of whatgsa did which is even pushing the limit to charging for parking but additionally adding in other incentives.One of the incentives that personally I know I would love to see offered up and I know that would make itthat much easier for someone like myself as a public transit user would be caltrain access. End up having to go to san francisco quite often for a bag meetings and paying for the caltrain ticket each time and how that could be an incentive if I wasn't given in lieu even free parking at work on in san jose or how my colleagues do in 3 their cities, we get in lieu payment on our checks for not using a city vehicle but our own vehicle, we will get a payment for that considering the gas and the vehicle miles and obviously the wear and tear on our cars that we would be using. I imagine what other cities are doing. I certainly saw anopportunity there that didn't really require like going to the voters didn't really require using a heavy lift. It does require as you said which happening with some of the employees that a little bit pain, that transition but an internal policy that can be made here whether it's the vta nd transit authority for the region and then subsequently the cities and within the county here and the county itself as well. So i'm kind of curious. Gary, nuria what your thoughts were here as they came up. .8:55 PMThank you very much, member peralez for punctuating on something that I have been saying. It doesn't matter whether we hand out free clipper cards. People are still not using it. The question is hat are the incentives to drive which takes into account the challenges that we have. It's a very large county, very spread out. Many of the employees at vta do not live in the city of san jose. We encourage carpooling and that's been going. It can be much better, but at least it's an improvement. We have many employees that take the ace train into santa clara and use the shuttle to come to work. .8:56 PMDo you mind describing how you encourage or are there incentives to that for the carpooling?For the carpooling, we came up with a program that provided the number of vehicles that we had purchased, they were fuel cell vehicles and transformed those vehicles and made them available to employees. They sign up. There is, I can't remember the name of the software that's used, gary, remind me. They sign up based on their zip codes and the members in the office given who lives there because you run into them in the grocery store and otherwise. That's in place. Now, the location of the valleytransportation authority is a very central location where in north san jose it was built in a campus where it was in the suburbs and now it's in the middle and we run a light rail system across from the office. And that spine is not very well-fed near our buses and if you live uses of the bus systems that would come anywhere close to that, then your alternatives are to look at other considerations. But, we need to start with land 3 use and with that land use, identifying what mechanisms, if you are curious about creating that density and what does that mean nd we are not creating anymore local roads and the density of a system that already has two lanes and if you look at tazman between north first street and parkway. That goesfrom three lanes to two and sometimes down to one and people are if there is activity on one of those lanes. So it's more of a challenge. I am anxious to hear ideas. We have brought many scenarios to this board and we've done it through a number of committees. One of the thing we did as you May recall at thecongestion management program planning committee was to set the stage for a conversation around how e reduce congestion. And why we are in the situation that we are currently experiencing with 400 plus buses in our network 98 rail cars and still experiencing a ridership decline of 2. 1% in an area that has 1. 6 million vehicles registered with the dmv in this county only. So that's, you start doing the math and layingthat out. I think each city working with each city is something that we have done. We have tried different type of approaches. To some degree a success, others not successful at all. One of the major innovations at the time was the introduction of the eco pass now the smart pass and that is to start looking at the large employers. We started with the county which is one of the largest employers. The city of san jose -- chicago, where is my mind. It's getting late. City of san jose was one of the early cities to adopt the smartpas pass, then they step back from it and back again. We know the numbers because we give you thecards. We know that numbers that each card has a digit -- on it and they can register the utilization. I'm sorry, I danced all over this. What we are hoping is we develop a very strong not only marketing but through our planning group, we have now come up with what we believe to be this transit service plan thatis going to create more frequency. Don't want to create -- that is one that i'm going to be monitoring veryclosely because it took a leap of faith to get many of you on the board and even individuals within our organization to say we have to do something different. We can't keep working at the edges and hoping that there is going to be a transformative change on the way that people think. Everyday I start to look at the number of cars and you see all of these new tags and people are buying cars, they are driving and it'snot just enough to say that we are going to start charging. People will pay. Don't want to go off the subject here but we cut the ribbon on our managed lanes and I was really impressed with some early numbers.The manage lanes on 237 started on November 15th, and we are already pocketing a lot f money because people are paying and even if there is a price, they will pay because they want that flexibility. It's not everybody get out of your car and the solution is to get on the bus. Well, those lanes are congested and as crowded as everything else. I wish we had priority. Even that requires significant coordination. And we are moving in that direction. I don't think we are going is to see something that is going to give us 100%through put because we still have corridors where places like camino real and there are segments and it's difficult to look at a fixed dedicated lane for public transit which is phenomenal everywhere but here but give the buses the free flow of having a dedicated lane and also the ability to have that signal priority. With that, we will start to see a change.Thank you. you did branch off. .I did. sorry about that..We need to start having coffee in the back because i'm getting a little tired myself. I am gary, curious to see where we can have this conversation around vta as an example starting to see some innovative ideas and piloting and our own workforce and workforce and incentivizing.This really falls within jim lawson's group that is the group that is looking at all of these options, the marketing team. So jim, I don't know if you want to say a few words on this and possibly create a presentation that we can bring through all of the standing committees.I think your question is right on target and spoken of frequently at the emergency management group and I think it's appropriate for the presentation. This is complex. There are a lot of competing interests and I think it needs to be carefully planned and thought out and we are happy to be in that conversation withyou. .I don't think it's a simple conversation and certainly our employees are not coming from all in the same place, and so how we would, you know, disincentivize. When my partner was coming to office. My assistant lives within a mile and drives. The incentive, there was none. She did it on her n. I recognize that same thing we have here in vta is we have employees that are coming from all over the place and not so easy for someone to ake public transit depending on where they are coming from. But I don't think this is a very worthwhile conversation. That we as the public transit authority should be setting that example and we in our own role and in the cities and the county could set 3 that example. I would love to continue this conversation. I'm glad the mayor is here in the city of san jose because we know how the passes are. We are growing and it's pointing in that direction of we also need to innovate better nd dece disincentivizing this. .The valley transportation authority with 2100 employees but the majority are bus operators and maintenance personnel. They are coming in in earlier systems than the bus starts operating. Not even thecounty because they have a big maintenance fleet and different from the city where they are going to an office. I want to make sure that we have that distinction so it's not viewed on us that to ensure that 2100people are on public transportation. We are the people that have to get to the buses before the transportation starts. .Very good point. the bus or light rail conductors can't take it if they are the ones driving it. I look forward to the conversation. .Rob?Just a short one. I wanted to add on o what director peralez said. We did mention this in the meeting and it was unanimous to all the directors present at the meet was we find 3 all congestion of all mobility modes and not just a car. There are many cares cases where we want t let cars ireasing for mobility.One of the things I wanted to say too I learned a lot at the california transit association meetinand one of the things that everybody was talking about their challenges and what they have been doing as rob mentioned increased ridership. It got into talking about there was some fascinating discussions about the kinds of technology and kind of networking and the difference between an autonomous vehicle versus a connected vehicle. It's almost like, hey, everybody is so worried about getting their toasting on the internet do we have enough bandwidth to 5 g to transportation that you May think is more important than your internet of things at home. We got into this discussion and there were a number of tracks of employees and a operators and systems around the country are having proems recruiting drivers, particularly operators. I know nuria is going to be doing to make a better work environment and more protectedenvironment for our operators. But I think 40% of our vta employees are retirement eligible. Some of the people from l. A. Were talking. Over 50% of their workforce is retirement eligible. So, the school districts are all advertising, he ones who still have it like my school district? Santa clara which is one of the few districts that's surrounding us that provides bus transportation anymore and part of the challenge I knowcooperate cupertino stopped because everybody went to work for apple. As we stop to look at the prairies that we what we need. We start to look at technology for ways as people are retiring and if we are not able to attract the operators, having a new technology will be a way that the people that are interested in working in public transportation can perhaps work in other capacities and on fixed guide ways or some of the idea about the pod. I know rob and I have had discussions about the way the charissa line with eachother. We are going to use a different way of this workforce. And nuria has been very frustrated about the bus rapid transit. I know she's wanted the cities of cupertino nd santa clara about reporting about the ways they are doing it and getting consultants to do a study on stevens creek partly because vta felt burned about the amount of money in the time and effort that went into the studies particularly in stevens creek and camino real I have been worried about this and who is going to take control of your intersection. We want cars going north to the work centers. I think all of us have to look at being willing to change what wethink is the control that we have. And so that we can make use of this technology because otherwise, you know, I like to say, if you always do what you've always done you will always get what you have alwaysgotten and the gotten is worse. [ laughter ] so I hope in the coming months we are very serious aboutlooking into this technology and looking at what others are doing and anyone that is on an apple bus or google bus it's 60 cars off the road and figure out how do we mesh the network better and the heavy rail that's coming into our region. There are changes coming at capital corridor that will also improve and can make significant dins in the capacity of the number of trains coming in. So, I think that that, I want tothank gary again for pulling this together and for kind of he responded to a request that I made to nuria really quick. I appreciate nuria's support and thank you, ruth for bringing your expertise and we lookforward to learning a lot more from you as ou are headed to your new venture. We appreciate the guidance that you gave to the ilot that we are going to have at va in palo alto. With that, we wanted to change he order because here we have been talking about these new modes. What we are looking at next is the criteria for transportation solutions. And as how the many people have talked to us about it over many months and the first and last mile. This is a chance for people in the community to hook up with your local agencies and come up with some ideas. Did you want to introduce the item?This item is no. 9.2. as you all May recall, there are nine programs within the measure b, the 016 measure b, and the board had approved or adopted criteria for how we are going to proceed with the allocation offunding. But they also gave us the directive to create the further riteria that would help with not only allocation, but submittal of projects and being able to compare the projects so that we can fund those that not only met the criteria in this case that we are bringing the level of innovation that is necessarynecessary. Innovation can be the way of approaches of the challenges that we are experiencing and the close of the gaps that I mentioned earlier where you do not have the bus route that ties into a rail or a first and last mile solution. So this is what's going to be presented today is what the staff is recommending as to the weight for each of the criteria within the innovative transit service models. We had a very interesting discussion at the level of the standing committees and their feedback into those weighted numbers hasalso been captured and jane is going to give us a quick summary on what this item is. If you want further discussion on it, we are happy. E did present it to all the committees, but we are happy to do something more elaborate.What would you want to do first?I think it's best to hear the presentation to have the full context and talk about how it various varies by committee.Good evening, we are having a little bit of technical difficulty. If you can help me with the slides. The screen in front of you we had three proposals and staff proposed the criteria and the criterion that the committees provided after our robust discussions at both committees, and as you can see staff's weight pretty heavily on the innovative services in the first and last mile connections. If you call the purpose of this program as written into the measure is to support affordable new innovative transit service models to address first and last mile transit connections and does give examples of these types of services as well and really providing services vulnerable under public transit relations. I don't know if you want me to cover the entire presentation r start with that. .I don't think you need to go through the entire presentation unless a board member would like you to. We did present at three committees and one committee did not have a quorum, but hose who were present did hear it. Jane, if you can just go over as we discussed previously what are the elements in the criteriathat are specifically stated in the law and what others were added and why the staff is recommending this distribution. .Right, the first five criterion for the innovative business model for first and last mile connections are forthose that need it and our criterion that staff actually brought to this body in March as an element that we can look at to develop criteria upfront and the board directed us to look at all of these as potential criteria.The first five are written into the measure and the last three are what staff felt were important. And if you see that we did ask staff we did have minimum points required. As the city increased the number of critical elements to address the number of minimum points accordingly to address those elementshat committees did elevate in their importance. .Could you explain very quickly what the minimum required points are please. .Pretty much, a project, we thought actually pretty hard about this. We did not want to fund a project that simply was ready. For some reason if this call for project was under described meaning there were notenough projects submitted and project that just did ten points. We wanted to provide a minimum so the project would at least have some element. It's late. Let me rephrase that. .I think the intention was the project would provide a significant value. It wouldn't be a question of sake of putting money out. I also wanted to make the point that many of the committees felt that it was necessary to look at this again after the first call of the projects and see what adjustments do we need to make. I think it's a sound decision to have a minimum requirement for a project so that we do have at least the comfort in recommending to you as a board that there will be a value to that. .I will adjust one more element. If you see the proposals up there with the original proposal, we looked at the point distribution and the fact that we had the first two criteria most heavily weighted andrecommended minimum point level that would require the project to either completely address one of them and pick up everything else or address both. A project could not be funded without doing one of those two things. As the committees elevated criteria in importance, we are proposing to tweak theminimum points so that that principle still applies. So, for example the cmpp criteria proposal, the top three criteria are most heavily weighted. So we are proposi a higher minimum score to ensure that anyproject selected is going to significantly address at least two of those if not three. .So madam chair, with that, the chair of each of the committees can. Mr. Peralez, would you like to start?I would love to. cmpp did take the first bite of the apple on amendments and I was confused on this 60, 65 and 75. And jane, I was disappointed I didn't see the presentation again. I loved seen the little jane. For those that missed it you had to have been there. I want to describe for the suggestions we made as far assuggestions go. We made the suggestion of these three changes here and what it stemmed from actually if you looked at the front page here of 9. 2 on the rcommendation, the background and then in quotations is the actual language from the ballot measure and in fact it was director rennie that had brought it up inregards to the vulnerable transit depend population and at the priority of where these dollars were supposed to go. We were all, I think a little bit unsettled with the heavily weighted on just the first twocriteria and when we looked at the language and kind of heard the justification from staff in regards to why there was a higher or heavier weight there, we actually felt with that same justification a value o weightthis item no. 3. If you read the quotations there, I will spare reading it myself, but it states that all three of those in fact were sort of what the priority of what we felt the emphasis should be and what the voters had voted on. So we made the recommendation after a little bit of discussion in regards to, we actually had talked about similar to what anf recommended and talked about making them all equal that had been discussed. We did feel that there are two other categories that actually assist in the servicevulnerable/transit dependent population on the under served market and the no. 2 criteria don't necessarily have that. There is not another criteria that aids and helps in that line and the way that sort of in simple terms to describe it. When you look at the vulnerable and transit dependent and the report as well and denoting what that means, people with disabilities, low-income, no vehicle themselves, individualsthat are really transit dependent and that population, vulnerable individuals and also low-income and we have the affordable service to add to for instance that low-income bracket that would tie into that and then the under served market could relate to some of these communities. For instance if you take the east and west of san jose. The see's of east of san jose could fall into that position and the west of san jose wouldn't perhaps fall into that low-income issue but we still wanted to give fair weight to the first two items and notunfairly now overly weigh a third. That's ow we came up with this criteria and adding this to the criteria 3.That was the recommendation we came to and I still like i. I'm willing to make a motion in that regard, but I will referee to my colleague. .You wanted to make a report?We had a good discussion about this. We talked a lot about the original intent of the program, how it was developed during the development of measure b, but we also brought in the conversation about thedevelopment of the new network program that we are about to launch. That this was always the criteria, this was always the program that we went back to when we talked about where cuts were going to happen. Where communities were going to lose service. We always went back and said we've got this program that we are going to be launching that communities that are losing service that will have theability to come up with ideas about how to get their own service and get some service back in a different way that maybe serves them in a unique way. That's how we started moving some of the numbers around.I guess really the major difference etween cmp and ynf is category 5 and some costeffectivenesscosteffectiveness. I'm going to ask my colleagues to add anything. The way that that had moved from 60, 65 to 75 is something I don't recall them talking about. If you wanted to add something to it because wedid have a discussion bit. .One of the things talking about the affordable service because we thought that fit in with costeffectiveness and we thought that maybe costeffectiveness and I know this is wordsmithing after a while and that captured the concept that made it worth ut also the financial means. So I know that that was, I don'tknow, mayor liccardo, I know that was something that you were particularly interested in the change with affordable service and costeffectiveness [ off mic ].We are the finance committee. we do look at that. Member mcallister? Is he falling asleep?I have question for staff. how long did it take you to come up with your proposal?We brought this to your staff level working group last year for the first time with the concepts and we have been working with them pretty constantly overlapping the criteria starting this past spring. .So you have been working with that. .That's correct..Whatever we come up with, we will be able to adapt that later in this group. Are we going to comments orstill doing questions?It's all morphed together now. Just go ahead. .Okay..Yes, we will o public comment here.So my thought is I want to go with staff. Considering it's only a two year program or two year grant period, we will be able to shake out. Maybe the cmpp is the correct one. But I think if you guys put in all the time and energy and looked at it. And if we keep wordsmithing it and tweaking it and we have the ability to adjust it and you talk with the other committees. Those are my thoughts on this one. .Great. we have a couple members of the public that wish to speak on this. ( calling names )Is bruce here? public speaker: thank you, just wanted, I just had a quick point. I was at this meeting atthe tac in nvember, and they didn't approve of the, I think they had a problem with the grant process bringing the grants to final presentation to people, and it was spoken that by the group here that they feel they have figured out a good plan to present their grant proposals, but there was just a bit of esitation and why it ended and I guess an abstention or not enough people were present. I thought I would note it and talk about the questions that were by the committee. There are questions that can be answered, but I thought I would just note it here so you can look into it.I'm not seeing any other members of the public. Directors?I have a comments. I thought I remembered at the cmpp the report about the tac was not able to comep with a recommendation on this where they had a 6-8 that failed and 8-6 that failed, am I correct?That's correct..What was the issue that they hazzard had that didn't pass. .We pulled it for further tweaking. The second time we took it to the advisory committee there was a second as a criterion and it is captured in costeffectiveness and as well as captured in no. 2 and thepotential number of riders. And adding a ight criteria of just these riders. .My second question is the explanations of how the minimums went up. The way I read this was making sure the last 4-5 criteria wasn't doing the project, do you feel comfortable now with your minimum scoregoing up that we haven't changed the riginal intention very much?Yes..Okay, thank you..From looking at the time, the change in our opinion doesn't address the important goals adopted by our directors. If you change two, the minimum score would assure those two were addressed. If you choose to have four top scong criteria that's what the five would address. It's not intended to circumvent that. .I will save my comments until after. Thanks. In the cmpp what I saw the trouble there the first scoring on the innovation and I wanted to make sure we weren't for the sake of being innovative which was a tool for getting o the goal for the first and last mile and serving under served market so forth. I was so happy to take down the innovative part as we take down the two. That was in my mind why we started moving the way we did. We didn't get as far down the thinking as amf did but i'm liking the amf solution. Since this is a way to help address the losing bus lines, I like the costeffectiveness of getting a lot more as sam said, we've got an issue getting serving our people because of minimum dollars I think was a term we used, scarce dollars. When I saw this, I thought what are they doing and they are really messing with it but when I started thinking about what they are doing, I actually liked it and serving the under served market what was interesting as you take down the affordable service but it's not about serving the poor because we are not putting an em as emphasis on that and you get it back from the vulnerable and under served.So maybe it's a double counting kind of thing. My point is anyway, I think I have warmed up to the amf solution.Irector peralez?Yes, had a question in that regard. I did too look to the amf and didn't find the logic behind the affordable service. What you talked about, the discussion also in regard to the trade off of costeffectiveness. I'm happy to have director carr explain but I wanted to hear from staff the difference between those two because staff obviously you created two different categories. If you can describe what you mean and howwe are going to actually weigh out affordable service and the costeffectiveness.Just a quick in a nutshell, what is it going to cost the rider and the provider?That's good enough. because I remember the part of the conversation we had in cmpp. For me to what director rennie was saying, I also do read that as affordable services I would want to put more weight because we are talking about the cost to the user, today rider and there isn't a trade off betweencosteffectiveness and affordable service. There May be against the transit dependent and as we made the list from cmpp that there was more weight put there just for the fact that e didn't decrease theffordable service. I still don't necessarily agree with that portion of it. I'm not completely against what we are trying to do here with the sausage making. I do respect director mcallister's points as well in regards to staff putting in a lot of time here, but we also and we had this discussion on the last item when we were making suggestions. We are the policy makers and it's a shared responsibility between both staff and the board. I know at home when my wife says go get your son ready and I bring him back and she says, why did youput those pants on him and I did and even though he was totally ready, I go back and change the pants. It could have went with [ laughter ] I don't think it was wrong that we are making suggestions and especially considering what staff was saying and certainly seeing the emphasis on the affordable users based on thecontext f the individuals creating this service. .I appreciate that and that's a very good conversations. We had some of that conversation as well and where we ended up is that this program is about innovative service and it not necessarily geared towardsserving a lowest common denominator or making sure it's affordable ervice and about an effective and innovative service and we saw those as higher priorities. In terms of serving, making the service itselfaffordable and that combination to making sure we had enough points for those that are particularly vulnerable and particularly transit dependent would be taken care of by making them an equal high pointstandard with costeffectiveness. And then again the serving the under served market is going to cover some of that as well but we gave that a higher weight because this is the only area at all in measure b that looks at how we can return some service in areas that we have taken away and not return it in the sameway as the service that we just reduced, but say, hey, let's work with communities and come up with something innovative to return some of that service. .I do like that portion of it and I would gree with you there. This May make things mudder for staff. I w going to recommend what you did and change the conversation. If the board is amenable I would like to make a recommendation with a small tweak to the minimum required points. But I would like to move the amf suggestion and bringing those points back up to ten and leaving that under served market at 10 as well. I would be comfortable with that and we've agreed to come back in two years or a year and lookingat the ability to tweak this. That I could be comfortable and that would be my motion.Director mcallister?I was going to make a motion to the staff. We had a recommendation and a situation where we hadn't recognized the effort that they have put into this. When you have two, the policy advisory board, the othercommittees, they made a unanimous, the tac made recommendations and that we sort of go, we don't take themma in consideration as much as we should even though to director peralez that we are the policymakers, but we are doing a lot of thinking on this. It's going to be done in two years and I would just rather see us keep it simple and see what staff is really trying to accomplish and take into consideration with the policy advisory and the tac and be done with that. I won't support the amf but you can't do a subsequent substitute motion. So I would like to make a substitute motion to go with the staff's presentation proposal. .Second.> okay, so we have a substitute motion that's been seconded. I think we have to vote on that substitution first? Okay, all in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? go ahead.[ off mic ].Pat made some suggestions for that. Nobody necessarily is unanimous in just saying let's just go forward.Even from our advisory committees.Director bruins?I wanted to weigh in on this. the one thing when I look at this from a fiduciary responsibility and ll of thisstuff, it's not surprising that amf upped the costeffectiveness which to me is I think we are alluding too much and we need something nnovative that is going to be not a flash in the pan. Not sufficient and theother one where it represented, we do have something that I think it's going to be hard for some communities to compete with us. Example would be and I would use los altos and that we are not going to make fluent communities compete with us. As we are using the transit dependent and the vulnerable. Weare an under served. If I look at this and say our biggest need to move our youth and when I look at moving the youth, I can get points for moving the youth but I might get slammed. Our parents are willing to pay more premium to get their kids to of our own immediate community, - we are willing to do that but we won't qualify for this. We might be an anomaly of the smallest cities doing that, but I would have preferred if we did stay with amf but what member peralez has proposed I think is still very reasonable because amf is hitting more of the mark of what we want this program to do. .Okay, lso this vote is for the substitute motion. All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? [ off mic ]So we are back to the original motion made by director peralez. Is there anymore discussion on director peralez' motion or any clarification needed?I would like some clarification. [ laughter ] .From staff. did you determine if it changes the minimum required points?We are okay with keeping it at 75. .The only change would be adding 5 points back by reducing 5 points from the costeffectiveness reducing itdown to 15.Everybody understand? all in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? okay, great, thank you very much. Very good discussion. This takes us to 9. 3. 9. 3. Action item - approve modifications to employment contract with vta general manager/ceo. The agreement to grant her ten additional days of vacationn lieu of a salary increase. Any questions on that? All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? was there any member of the public that wanted to speak on that, i'm sorry? Okay, great.That was ea. That takes us to item modifications to employment contract with vta general counsel. So the board also met in closed session on this item and so what was discussed was to modify general counsel's employment agreement to $253,000 to fully fund the deferred compensation program in the amount of $19,000 and to change her additional vacation days from the present 5 days to 10 days which would be anet increase of 5 vacation days.So moved..Any further discussion? I don't have any cards. All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? thank you very much. And that takes -- we've already done 9. 5. 9. 6 was placed on consent. Now item 10. 1. Our general manager's report. .Thank you madam chair. i'm going to do my report. Unlike previous years, I have a vivid recollection of what should have happened and didn't happen. It was that kind of year. We are fortunate to have the dedicated number of employees. I want to thank them all and also the vta board of directors that wereactive and in guiding and participating and getting involved. There is a difference. It's very simple. If you ever sat down to breakfast, you know the chicken participated. The other animal got involved. So what did 2019 look like? We achieved in addition to those 3 priorities some others that I took on my own through the implementation of the recommendations of our ad hoc committee on financial stability and instituting other administrative cost savings. We significantly narrowed the significantly operating deficits on $2 million. On safety and security and there will always be a priority not only to our public but employees.Tragically this year we experienced two fatalities in two separate incidents on our light rail. I can't not emphasize enough that one loss is too many. We continue to go to schools to talk about safety and on ourlight rail. On the security side we are working with local 265 to address operators safety. We recently installed an operators shield. Before we go through, I don't know what the period is that we have established, but at some point we will decide the type of shield we will be installing. I don't know if youhave been tracking what's going on around the country. These operators have been attack and that is a shield that separates the operator from the fare box and has proven to be effective in many cities. We'll see how 3 that works here. I know the team has been asking for this. Our atu joint workforce investment program graduated the first group at mission clogs where 271 participants received certificates from thechancellor's office for finishing finishing credits. We are very proud of them. Those credits will go towards an associate degree. This has proven to be very successful. On a transient initiative, you heard the summary on what's going on this that space. We will continue to look at opportunities because our industry has been disrupted in a big way and we need to take some giant steps into research and deploy some technologies whether there are technologies that take advantage of existing assets or new assets.Following our future of transportation workshop earlier this year, I think we are now we heard that there isan rfp, we have 5 respondents and we can't wait to have more and envisioning what our transit system needs to be to be responsive to our users and riders and also will help us with the whole question of thelight rail and what steps we will be recommending and bringing it back to the board when it comes to the light rail system and the replacement of those assets. We also celebrated the ground breaking of the matilda change and that will be completed and we completed our second phase of the program. Those are the prouds and what are the sorries. Once again we came up short in the delivering of first phase of the bart deliverance in 2019. You will hear more about that in vta in our program staff later