Thursday November 5, 2020. Santa clara valley transportation authority. Board of directors meeting.Hello, everyone, i'm glenn hendricks, the vice chair, our chair, cindy chavez, is not going to be able to make it this evening so she's asked me to go ahead and drive the bus literally, so i'm going to call the vta board of directors regular meeting for Thursday November 5, 2020 to order, thank you for attending our board meeting tonight, I would like to ask you to unmute your mike mic. So we can do a roll call andelaine, can you do a roll call for us.Marie blan lee, exofficio bruins, board member carr, board member carrrasco, board member cortese, alternate board member davis. Board member diep, alternate board member ellenberg, board member jones.5:31 PMPresent.Alternate board member kniss. Board member liccardo?Present.Board member mcalister?Yup, i'm here.Alternate board member miller?Here.Board member nunez?I'm here.Alternate board member o'neill?Present.Board member peralez?Here.Board member rennie?Present.Vice chair hendricks?Attending.Chairperson chavez?Okay, thank you.You have a quorum, thank you.We're going to skip 1.2, I think that's hard to do during in a virtual molting so i'm going move on to 13, orders of the day, do I have any changes from my colleagues? I lost my -- let me get that -- i'm seeing no raised lands from any of my colleagues. Er5:32 PMI move, liccardo.I'm sorry, I missed that.I said so moved.Okay, so we have a motion --Second.Who seconded that?Bob din nas. erSince there were no changes, do we need to tame a vote?I'm seining ef lynn say no.We're to item 2, awards and commendations, and we do not have any items under item 2 today for awards and commendations. Right now we are at item 3, public comment, public comment, this is a reminder for those who wish to address the board under public comment, please raise the raised hand function in theapp or if you're using your phone, press star 9, this is reserved for persons designed to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction websinger are going to be limited to one minute, thelaw does not intend for us to take any action unless under special circumstances, for those who have customer service concerns, contact our customer service department after you make your comment and is their contact information will be on the screen. I'm going now to our attendees' list, it looks like we have several people who wish to address the board, so anita, are you doing it or --5:33 PMYes, i'll go ahead and start.Okay, go ahead.Tessa, please go ahead and speak when you're ready.Can you hear me?Yes.Okay, good, yeah, i'm very disappointed that there's only a minute and of course that's the change of your governance that you just cut the public access, that's the problem, but now we have many problems that we're not facing and it's a demagogue ri of our represents x of dave davis and people like mayor liccardocalling the black and brown people the problem when our problem is climate change and covid-19 and taking care of the health of our community, and we're not facing that, the fact that mayor liccardo on mtc is saying that we can't have people working at home and i'm seeing that m workers that i'm paying for, they are going to city call because you are just selling them out, not letting them work at home, we need to work a t home and this thing of say hating you're not going let the mtc because it's not good for business that you're going to have -- just go ahead and not encourage the mtc to encourage all businesses to not --5:34 PMOkay, thank you. next speaker, please.Jeremy, please go ahead and speak when you're ready, jeremy erman.5:35 PMCan you hear me?Yes, we can.Thank you. i've been unemployed since March and I have no car, vta is pretty much the only way I have t get around, the service cuts have been difficult to deal with. The guidelines as to how many people fit on a bus have not been consist tense tetley applied, the website is very accurate. Route 21 was use thingsmallest buses and it's insane, these buses are small and cramped, there's only one door, there's limitedaccessibility, larger buses were used when there was no fees but now that you're charging them you, ear use thing smallest bus on route 21, it makes no sense, it's insane. I e-mailed comments about theproposed cuts for the 2021 service and was basically told we have to cut the evening services but buses will be back in 2022, this does not help me that being unemployed, I can't take the bus tosing take me to my job, I ask you to keep the evening service, please cut the bus --5:36 PMOkay, thank you. and to all of our speakers, we have an extremely long list of people that are to speak, ifyou want to speak, please make sure you raise your hand now because in a minute, i'm going to go ahead and tell staff to draw the end of the line, so next speaker, please.Kevin ma, please go ahead and speak.My name is kevin ma, 22 years old and here with silicon valley youth transit team and [inaudible] ourtransit system needs money to sustain itself, as we've seen if the past, 20 years, the vta bus lines have been cut throughout the process instead of getting bet and her we're still facing the same climate crisis as well as equity concerns about people trying to get to work especially in these troubling times, w should be doing the most we can to sustain our services in order to provide ability for people to get anywhere toanywhere else because we also know that we talk about things like transit-oriented development, we can't really did that if there's no more transit anymore and we still need to make our speed 375 requirements for general greenhouse gas emissions and transit is going to be one of the main way tos do it because[inaudible] is going to take time but transit's going to be very much in that picture still. Thank you.5:37 PMOkay, and to staff, before we go on to anymore speakers, let's take 262 as the last person in line for publiccomments.Okay. m oris, -- moria, please go ahead and speak. Inger5:38 PMIwant to urnl you to maintain or increase the level of transit that's available, it's really essential service and it would be heart breaking to see it slide back or become decreased, I understand tat you're considering some kind of a decrease in transit. I'm super lucky to be able to have a private car and yet even with a private car, I do rely on transit in lots of situations, I rely on if my car is broken, if I need to go to the airport, I rely on it to go to santa cruz at night, I think there could come a time when I rely on it foreverything, I have friends who are seniors and low income who do not have an option except to get around for tran transit and it's essential for caring for all of us as a community as well as for reducing greenhouse gasfinger we flexed to go in the direction of more transit and more options including more bicycling, thank you so much.5:39 PMThank you, next speaker.Charlotte, please go ahead and speak when you're ready.My name is charlotte, I live in san jose, I grew up here, i'm urging you to please not cut transit, if anything, we need to be expanding it and I know that nobody wants to do that because of budget cuts but you have to really always keep in mind just like one of the speakers said, this really affects people's livesespecially buses are critical to increasing mobility for people who can't drive or who can't afford to and there's going tor mf and more of us people that have been affected economically and physically by covid-19, it's critical part of improve ining this world and in this area and it's important to xliem mat change,please, do your r utmost to maintain transit services, it's pretty horrifying how far behind the bay area is incomparison to the rest aof the world and the fact that we need to have these discussions about maintaining it, please remember that you are negatively affecting real human beings whenever you cutany service at all, especially buses.5:40 PMHayden, please speak. erI'm a high school student and depend on transit to get around s hearing how vta is raping for ma massive cuts after a pandemic when many are unemployed, it's disheartening. People depend on vta to get around and there's new funding opportunities, we have to look at front loading funds, looking at more ways to getmoney for transit because if we don't, the region's going to suffer and the low income riders are going to suffer, everyone's going to suffer.5:41 PMThank you. Mr. Beekman, go ahead and speak whenever you're ready.Thank you. I hope at this point in November websinger ear all becoming clear with the idea there May be an expected rise in covid-19 cases throughout the winter and that we are going to work hard so that theprevious 70 deaths a week across the bay area May grow to an amount of 100 to 120 a week, this means to please continue to use caution and safe practices throughout the fall and early winter, there's an important October 14th sstpo public meeting now available that is working to help make clear how there can be good nightly cleanings of paratransit vehicles, riding with your idea what you can add to better clean ideas, thanks a lot with ten seconds left, good luck on how we work on the issues of covid, how dowe address that at this time, thank you.5:42 PMPhone number ending in 7876, please g ahead and speak when you're ready.That's me, my name is dean, i'm with daoe an sa sea, i'm disabled and by changing the bus, you are affecting disabilities people and also the paratransit, furthermore, now everybody can work online, some people still need to bus and finally our governor has been [inaudible], he wants us to be ta emission free, so without the bus, how are we going to be with climate change, thank you.5:43 PMThank yu.Kaushik, go ahead and speak. ErI'm a senior at st. francis high school and a sunnyvale resident, i'm here with silicon valley youth action and turn out for transit, a resilient and effective public transportation system is crucial to reduction ofgreenhouse gas emission from the transportation sector, it takes large amount of single passenger automobiles off the road, pub lig transport is an important part of the lives of hundreds of thousands of byarea residents who depend on it to get to work, to get to school and to gt to other significant locations. In addition, public transportation is more than just a sustainable solution, it reduces congestion, noisepollution and makes our bay area more livable, with all of this in mind, I urge the valley transit authority tonot cut service nor reduce funding for our transportation system, crucial to the hundreds of bay arearesident, please consider the pleas of myself and my fellow speakers, we depend on you for habitableplanet earth.5:44 PMThank you.Dia, please go ahead and unmute yourself. O we'll come back to them.Can you hear me?Apologies, so, hello, my name is diya, a 16 year-old student ad I live in morgan hill but live in saunter clarecounty, i'm here with turn out for transit, I have seasonal asthma concentrated around the summer and autumn months, the most challenges instances have been throughout scorching wildfire smokes drift intothe air, and this year particularly has been one of the worst, I was in one interval from august toseptember, california's wildfires released in six weeks what more than one million cars would release in a year, and with 40% of our e commissions coming from cars and truck, wildfires aren't going to go away soon so it's essential we iprove the air quality in any way we can, with the survival and prioritization of ourcounty's public transit websinger will move towards a future with clean air and healthier generations, please save transit now to my peers and I can continue to breathe, thank you for your time.5:46 PMThank you. next speaker.Tiffany chen, go ahead and speak whenever you're ready.Hi, my name is tiffany, I am a student at mont vao es ta high school and i'm 17 years old, I live in san jose in santa clara county and today i'm here with scica internet for transit. Many students elderly and people who cannot afford driving their own cars heavily rely on transit and in santa clara county, 40% ofgreenhouse gas emissions come from transportation and i'm extremely worried for the air pollution and the environment of our county and I strongly feel that we need to avoid service cuts, implement moresustainability and environmental awareness so we can fiekt climate change and we need to do everything we can to save transit. Thank you for your time and for your consideration.5:47 PMThank you. next speaker, please.[inaudible], please go ahead and speak whenever you're ready.Give me one second, i'm ready.Okay, go ahead.I'm pragya, a 15 year-old, I live in san jse and santa clara county and here with silicon valley [inaudible]and youth for transit. [inaudible] many including myself used the vta bus system before the pandemic, if you cut down s frs, it will not just be harmful but for or climate, my generation suffers the brunt of climate changes even the air we currently breathe is filled with smoke and public transit gives us a chance for a better future, we know covid-19 is [inaudible] is a way to stop larger catastrophe, keep our world living another day, thank you for your time and hospitality and we hope you do nt cut 30% of your operations.5:48 PMThank you, next speaker, please.Carolyn villa followed by sonia and then john joey. Carolina, please go ahead and speak whenever you're ready.My name is carolina and a senior at presentation high school, I live in downtown san jose and here with silicon valley yuth climate action transit team and turn out for transit, i'm really trying to do my art, i'm trying to be a good daughter and a good friend and trying to be a good person, I understand that myparents don't have the luxury to buy a car or pay my uber every time I need a ride, I want to be there for a friend when they truly need me, I use a lot more resources at a faster rate than the world canregenerate, I need transit, I use transit to go to place and is when someone is in need, I use transit because I care about my community and the world around me and I understand that sometimes it's my only option to get around and it's devastate hating you guys are considering to cut 30% and thank you for your time and consideration.5:49 PMThank you, the next speaker, please.Sonia, please go ahead.Sonia? okay. We'll move on, john joey, please go ahead and speak when you're ready.5:50 PMAre you able to hear me?Yes, we can. . Inger i'm so sorry, okay. Hi, i'm sonia, i'm a student at cupertino high school and live in santa clara county, I know you guys have been listening to a lot of comments and I know you guys are going to, I hope you're paying attention to this common trend that's going on, lots of students including myself, we depend on tans sit as a safe means of transportation, it's a large factor of greenhouse gas emissions in santa clara county and we've been struggling with recent wildfires to tao and nr a place like the bay area, pub lig transit is essential and more efficient than just focusing on [inaudible] butmaintaining transit service iss a bigger priority, I don't have a car and I don't think I can afford one in the future but as long as public transit services don't plummet, I know I can rely on something, so thank you for your time and consideration.5:51 PMThank you. next speaker, please.John joey, please go ahead and speak.My name is john joey, a currently sophomore attending santa clara college but i'm here [inaudible]--Looks like he dropped off, we have alexis followed by danaka. Alexis, please go ahead and speak. ErCan you hear me?Yes, we can.My name is alexis chan, 15 years old, i'm here from turn out with transit, I urnl you to avoid transit servicecuts, this is important the me because climate change has drastically impacted us, more than 40% of santa clara county's greenhouse gases come from car, it will resort people to g o to drive, and others use transit that can get to work and cannot afford to use it, please prevent transit service cuts, thank you.5:52 PMThank you. next speaker.Can I hop back in, I think my internet cut out. Is that okay?Yes, go ahead, jon.Awesome, thank you, my name is jon joey, a sophomore, i'm urge agent the turn out for transit, i'm here to talk tabt vital importance of transit and it's given me access of going home a after long day of schooling, other youth who are in my position growing up would have to wait in the cold until getting home, peoplewho rely on consistent public transit, elderly residents of this area and that is not the image the vta taught build for itself, this nits the public transit yields a 2 to 1 return, its businesses and its workers, up to 164 billion dollars of income generated, I urge you the save transit and preserve the necessary service, reaffirm our vta's duty to serve the public and uplift the residents today.5:53 PMThank you.Danika, pease go ahead.Can you hear me?Yes, we can.Okay, my name is danica, i'm a 15 year old and a current sophomore from presentation high school, i'mcurrently with the silicon youth transit team and turn out for transit, my parents were able to drive me school and other places I needed to be, for some of my friends, public transit were their only means of getting where they need to go, sometimes they would be late to class because there were delays, manypeople use public transit and without it, they wouldn't be able to go to their job and is support their families and attend school, thank you for your time and consideration.5:54 PMThank you, and our next speaker.[inaudible] followed by cole and christina.Aya, go ahead and speak.My name is aya and I live in santa clara and i'm part of students for environmental equity at daoe an s ,transit is not only important to me but also to my community, i've used transit countless of time tos get to my classes and my internships especially whi had no one to take me, I know several of my peers usetransit as their only source of transportation because they can't afford a cr including myself, 10 thousand stouts signed up for a clipper car just to show how many people use public transit, this 30% cut will be detriment to me and my peer and is my community members, especially low income and people of color, having accessible public transit I beneficial for the environment, our community and our planet needs a public transit, so please, I urge you to consider solutions to save transit. Thank you for your time.5:55 PMThank you, next speaker, please.Cole, please good ahead and speak when you're ready.Good evening, council, this is cole cameron, I first want to thank jay and his team for helping us expand the bus service out to the va center that's helping our vets get around, i'm the chair of the county's veterans commission and we thank the support to our vet, we hope that continues with more bus service instead of having to cut the bus 65 out there where i'm the the chair of the council off of union in the[inaudible] plaza area because more buses as you've been hearing from the student, they're much cleaner vehicles these days so it helps the environment and I think they're economical also, soy look forward to you considering more bus service as we develop because it's been on a steep decline for not just years but decades, thank you for the time this evening v a good meeting. Er5:56 PMThank you, our next speaker, please.Christina followed by john and louisa. John, go ahead and speak whenever you're ready. Iefrment christina phan, a rez sent o san jose, transit was absolutely crucial for me all throughout high school, I would say a majority of my high school was rliant on vta public transit gave me a means to get to an internship without worrying about thousand get there, I don't think I would have had that experience and I wouldn't be as suck suck aesz sfl without transit, ie not in high school anymore but this apply tos my classmates at daoe yanz sa, a tlird of our students needs vta we fought to have smart pass available to owl our students, without vta, it would be hard r for students of color to come to stool, this is an equity issue, so I urge the board to consider the solutions to safe transit, thank you.5:57 PMThank you, our next speak e please.John courtney, please go ahead.Good evening, chair, good ao efz wantoning, Mr. Chair, thank you for allowing me to have this time to speak, congratulations to dave, there's some victories coming along after that, i'm hoping that my hometown of philadelphia can pull it off for the presidential election, of course i'm against service cuts, it's ridiculous, what I wanted to talk about tonight is a little different, in the atu, we've had 90 deaths ofoperators and mechanics and we lost a family member a close family member, ms. Audrey lopez was an operator for 30 year, she was a absolute sweetheart, loved her grandchildren, loved to laugh, loved life and our family misses her and I also wanted to thank raj, nori and cindy chavez for doing the right thing for audrey, so thank you so much and god bless all of you.5:58 PMLisa followed by sahana and [inaudible], louisa, go ahead and speak whenever you're ready.Can you hear me?Yes, we can.Okay, thank you, m name is luiza, i've lived in saunter clare cunty for three years, I believe, i'm withenvironmental [inaudible] at daoe yan sa , I have depended heavily at daoe an sa on transit, i'm not fortunate enough to have my own car as well as other students so I want you to consider all your solutions otherwise we will have many students of low income background struggling more to attend classes or go to school, tose students wish they were here but they're working. In addition, I believe we've had our fair share of struggles this year, I do not believe that having a 30% transit cut would bring a positive outcome for a community but instead one more thing on a pile of issues we have right now in california, thank you for your time.5:59 PMThank you, the next speaker, please.Sahana, please go ahead.6:00 PMHi, my name is sahan, a sophomore at santa clara high school, i'm 15 and have lived in santa clara and sunnyvale for my existence, I can walk and bike to most places I need go to, but my neighbor and isfriends rely on public transit to get o the places they need, I will also need transit to depend on where I need to be, these cuts will contribute to climate change, you have to keep this from happen, please, take action, thank you for your time and consideration.Thank you, and our next speaker, please.Hoyan, please go ahead and speak whenever you're ready.I do not own a car, i'm with mothers out front and turn out for transit, a 30% cut could render publictransit unusable for many riders including myself to get to work and essential services, cuts will lead tomore homelessness, cts would put up to 60-70 thousand more cars on the road, I urge you to front load measure b funds and help use services, activists will introduce a bill to [inaudible] into a public bankbacker k, this could save the state billions of dollars which could then be used to asist in pandemic relief and recovery and health on transit service, we will experience climate effects which will include wildfires and droughts for decades to come, our climate goals will be ruined without public transit. Thank you for your service.6:01 PMLisa followed by jenny and then dniel, please lisa, go ahead and speak whenever you're ready.Hello, can you hear me?Yes, we can.Hi, good ao efz wantoning, my name is lisa and i'm a resident of milpitas, public transportation is extremely important for our community, as someone who took the bus to and from school every day, Iunderstand how crucial it is to have rliable transportation, even with the vta services at that time, I had trouble getting home after 6 p. M. Because the services to my home stopped after that time, for people who need to good get home from work, transit cuts will hurt them, not everyone can afford a personal car including me, since i'm home from college, this is going to affect me once coronavirus gets better,additionally public transportation is crucial for reducing greenhouse gases from personal car, how can weconsider ourselves the hub of technical innovation if we don't have a public transportation system, I urgeyou the save transit, thank you.6:02 PMThank you, our next speaker, please.Jenny, please go ahead.Hi, i'm jenny green, I live in san jose and a member of mothers out front, I urge you to consider solutions to save public transit, it's important for the climate and it's the only method of transportation available formany people in our community, I also want the say within the past year, I attended a meeting with staff pr the city of san jose who said they were planning to reduce the number of parking spaces required in new multifamily buildings as a way to discourage people from buying cars and encourage them to loo use public transit, if you're going do that, you need to please provide public transit for people to ride. In conclusion, this valley is already a tough place to live for people who don't hve a lot of money, please don't make it harder by cutting public trance si. Thank you.6:03 PMOur next speaker, please.Daniel followed by patrick and then river, daniel, please go ahead.Cn you hear me now?Yes.My name is daniel , a 22 year-old student, we just had an election, while we don't know the full results for the presidential one, I would like to congratulate those who have I have gotten to know as public servants especially supervisor cortese here on the vta for their victory, one thing is clear, we the people want and need public transit, measure rr has been approved in a landslide with about a third of votes voting yeswhile it could raise money websinger are still in the worst transit financial history because of transit, every dollar count, we want to have transit for elders, for the disable, for the less fortunate to keep their jobsand students like me who need it for when many schools come back to in person classes for the coming semester. Staff has proposed a --6:05 PMThank you, our next speaker, please.Patrick, please go ahead.Patrick?Hello, can yu hear me?Yes, we can.Hi, my name is patrick, I serve on the foothill doe yanz sa klent college board, I want to first off by sayinghow much I appreciate all of you and all the work that you do as regional leaders for our county and your dedication of finding the best solutions for our mass transit issues tla we're having right now in these really unprecedented times. I know you all have difficult decisions to make but I ask that you please consider notmaking cuts towards transit especially where it May negatively impact and harm our students, this past monday, our board of trustees proudly passed the contract renewal with our vta smart pass contract with you, we dd so because we understand the difficult situation you have before you but we want to continue to be a partner with you, to not just provide transit from our students getting from point a to point b, the opportunity that the transit lines represent but my 2020-11-05t21:06:09. 5295970-05:00 time is almost up, I want to say thank you again but please don't make cuts to transit for students.6:06 PMThank you, and our next speaker, please.River, followed by ari and james. River, please go ahead when you're ready.My name is river, I live in campbell but I work in santa clara, the 323 and the 23 buses were my lifetimesbetween classes at daoe yanz sa and the -- where I volunteer. I take the 0 bork now as I resume retail at valley fair a30% cut would limit frequency and more often than not leave me stranded outside the mallafter closing up shop, i'm grateful to the advocates from daoe an sa so we can have clipper cards, we wishbusinessess would encourage employees to take public transit, most ofz the funding of vta is from people who take the transit, [inaudible] partner with the clipper program as one of the possible solutions to save public transit. Thank you.6:07 PMThank you, and our next speaker, please.Ari, please go ahead.Hello, my name is ari and i'm a college student at mission college, i'm here to ask you all to supporttransit. I use today use vta often as a community college student taking the light rail down to san jose and other destinations and occasionally the bus as well, when we return to a sense of normalcy, I plan on continuing to use transit so I ask that you support transit. Also measure rr is looking like it's going to pass, this means that cal trans is going to be saved from shutting down and it has a lot of promise and giving subsidies to people who are students and my point is cal trans is going to be thriving, it makes sense weshould support vta transit also so they can thrive together, thank you.6:08 PMThank you, the next speaker, please. ErJames followed by yolanda and linda, james, go aid head 2020-11-05t21:08:46. 7850334-05:00 -- ahead when you're ready.James does not have the correct technology unfortunately.Okay, next speaker.Yolanda, please go ahead when you're ready.6:09 PMHi, sorry about that, so, i'm a teacher in downtown san jose, as you can hear many students need to use the bus like my students. Teachers also use public transportation for field trips, to the museums and going to other areas in the city. To me, I think it's narrow mindedness of city planning to only think that bicycles are part of the planning, public transportation should go hand in hand for having bicycles and is having public transportation for all people, if you cut 30%, you're also cutting the elderly and disabled for usingtransportation and earlier on in the beginning when these gentlemen were talking about golf, it's like playing golf without a caddy, so I feel that you really need to think broader and think about the people who live here who depend on using public transportation, thank you.6:10 PMThank you.James, please go ahead. linda, please g ahead and speak when you're ready.Hi, good evening, my name is linda and a resident of san jose and a member of mothers up front silicon valley, transportation is vital for health, [inaudible] we live near a highway which means my kids breathe higher levels of [inaudible] this improves our air quality and reduces [inaudible] if you cut service by 30% you, eel likely be forcing up to 60 or 70 thousand more cars on to the roads and this will damage ourpublic goals and public transit, so many in our community rely on transit, disabled ad elders and peoplethat can't afford a car, please retain the transit service sos you don't hurt the most vulnerable in ourcommunity, thank you so much.6:11 PMBefore we go to the nester speak e I want to let people know, we had already closed people being able to get in the queue and I see people are trying to get in, staff should be letting you know there's going to be -- you can have other ways to contact us but we've already set the end of the line for the the speakerqueue. Next speaker, please.Our next speaker will be bob and natashia, bob, please go ahead and speak when you're ready.Bob, are you there?6:12 PMHi, sorry, can you hear me?Yes, alright, sorry about that, my name is bob, a resident of district 3 in san jose, i'm here with [inaudible] transit, public transit a critical service, it's critical for ek twit reasons because it enables transportation, people who don't have access to a vehicle, it's good for environmental reasons, it reduces greenhouse gases, a 30% cut would significantly impede our progress in all tlaoez of those axis and it would last for a long time, if you make those cuts, it could take a long time to recover from it, it would impede our region's progress and our development goal and is our climate goal and is equity goals so I strongly encourage the board to find way tos avoid a 30% service cut including possibly front loading measure b funds and any other options on the table to pevent this because I think the repercussions of this will be long lasting andvery negative. Thank you.6:13 PMZimaran, please go ahead.Hello, i'm cici, a jr., i'm 16 years old, live in saratoga and here with the transit team and turn out for transit, my grandma who's 70 grievers old and lives in mountain view will use the public transit to visit my family here in saratoga, transit st for elder people and those who live in less privileged areas, so mygrandma will not be sll painting here with us without vta transit, I know it will caoe yaoet abuser for manyhouseholds that depend on it including my family, thank you for your time and consideration.6:14 PMThank you, our next speaker, please.Natashia followed by susan and then mallory.My name is natashia, a former resident of los gatos resident, i'm currently live ining san francisco call iningbecause my family, my community, my friends rely on public transit and cutting public transit rght now,cutting public transit at all is something we cannot do if we want silicon valley to be the place that eerybody says it is, transit needs to not just be available at this point but competitive given the tragic passage of prop 22, we cannot allow uber and lyft to maintain their strangle hold on our state economy and cutting transit means basically handing it to them so I urge the board to choose to not cut transit and work to expand it as much as you physically possibly can, thank you.Thank you, the next speaker, please.Susan, go ahead, please.6:15 PMHi, i'm susan bus ler graham a san jose resident and member of mothers upfront silicon valley, while Iunderstand that that is difficult budget time, as a mother and grandmother, i'm very concerned about theproposed 30% cut to public transit. Transit in the south bay is tenuous and difficult as it is, these cuts would force many people who p refer to use transit to purchase cars, adding tons more carbon to theatmosphere for years to come, these c uts would worsen already dfficult commutes for r the 80% of vta riders who rely on public transit to get to work, medical appointments and school. I know that you care about the climate and ability equity, our city and our county have declared a cimate emergency and are working to make our society more just. I urge you to consider solutions to save transit including front loading measure b operations funding and prevent these cuts. Our community and our c limate and our --6:16 PMThank you, and our next speaker, please. . Er we have four speakers left, it will be mallory, phone number ending in 9157, followed by anna bell and our last speaker will be emily. Mallory, please go ahead andspeak when you're ready.Good evening, my name is mallory and i'm a junior at [inaudible] live ining sunnyvale, today i'm here aspart of silicon valley climate youth action, in january, 2020, the bus route that I depended on to take home from school, bus route 56 down hall len beck was cut, it not only serviced my home of homestead, fremont high sxaol and challenger elementary school, all of these students were forced to find new wy tos school, some of us relying on cars that pollute our airs and congest the roads, more cuts will cntinue to do so, allover the world, we are seeing the damaging effects of climate change, in my lifetime, I have seenhorrendous fire, orange skies and unprecedented storms in california along loan, I cannot imagine what the world would be like in 20 years if these cuts would be made, I urge you to not cut anymore routes because people will be impacted by these decisions, both now and in the future.6:17 PMTank you, our next speaker, please.The last three speakers are phone numbers ending in 9157, anna bell and emily, all the rest, please submit your comments through the e-mail address, as you can see o n this screen. Phone nmber ending in 9157,please speak when you're ready.Hi, can you hear me?Yes, we can.Hi, my name is castle wine stien, I live in san jose, i'm a resident and I work downtown. I need to take the light rail to get to the grocery store, to get to doctor appointment, to get to work because i'm a worker now, I gend heavily on public transit because I can't drive because I h ave ptsd because I would have roadrage, boast most of the time I have to wait for second bus, people are restricted from riding because of covid, extra bus ares needed daily and without this service, I will not be able to get to work or anywhere, I understand since charging for rides wasn't an option at the beginning of the covid but the funds are lessthan what they should be, that doesn't legitimize or justify caring about the livelihood of others to make efforts, there has to be otherwise.6:18 PMThank you. and our next speaker, please.Anna bell, please go ahead.Anna belle doesn't have the technology unfortunately.6:19 PMOkay, if we could go to our last speaker for this section.Emily, please go ahead and speak when you're ready.Hi, my name is emily and I live in campbell and i'm a sophomore at santa clara university. When I was living on campus at cu last year, I completely relied on public transit, I could not afford to take an uber or a lyft, I needed public transit to take me to locations for class projects and assignments, to take me to the store or go anywhere with friends, while i'm incredibly lucky to have a car now due to where i'm living, I want to get to a point where my car is obsolete and I can take public transit at all time, we are moving backwards when we should be pushing forward to expand public transit more, public vehicles account forgreenhouse gas e miss so cutting the budget will reduce the goal of cutting greenhouse gas emissions, please consider solutions to save transit. Thank you.6:20 PMSo, I want to thank all of our public speakers, I know we weren't able to get to some people as was noted, you can contact us, you can send us an e-mail through customer . Service at vta . Org t board is very much in interested hearing people's comments for what is going on. I'm going the move on to our next section which is public hearing number 4, we don't have any ie steps under number 4, we're going to move on to committee report, 5. 1, the citizens advisory committee chair, marty, is here to provide a brief report.Good ao efz wantoning, vice chair hendricks, gm fernandez, member of the board, the city watched our committee [inaudible] by santa clara county vote teaser provide oversight for the tax measure collected and keeping county residents informed, at our October 7th meeting ser cwc approved our annual report tothe public in fiscal year 2019, i'm pleased to announce the report includes our conclusion that for theperiod of fiscal year 2019, 2000 measure a tax dollars were spent in accordance with the intent of the measure. You might have seen our abbreviated report on local newspapers or come across our report on vta's social media channels. Additionally the vta's comprehensive report is available on the updated 2000measure a home page at vta . Org/2000 measure a, I request that you share a report with your constituents, [inaudible], also at our la nt last month's meeting tcwc received a robust presentation from staff on the 2000 measure a semi-annual report covering the period ending June 30, 2020, this is on your consent agenda, item 6. 4, the committee received staff presentation on the draft 2021 transit plan, we look forward to providing further ip put and recommendations at our next meeting when staff present it is final plan for adoption and our next meet ising Tuesday November 10th at 4 p. M. , thank you, thatconcludes my report if there are any questions.6:22 PMThank you, marty, i'm not seeing any board members with their hands up, thank you very much for that information.We do have two public speakers.Do we do public speakers on each one of these point items or just on 5, period.Vice chair, you can take the comments all at once for item 56789Let's take all the comments on item 5 and we'll do that at the end after we've had them all, thank yu verymuch, marty. Nester is 5. 2, the policy advisory committee, the policy advisory committee chair report is available on your online pact. For 5. 3, standing committee chairpersons' report, the governance and auditcommittee met earlier today and we forwarded the bpac appointment reappointment to tonight's consent agenda and during the committee's closed session, we discussed the performance evaluations of the general manager, ceo and our general counsel. All other standing committee chair reports are available inyour online packet. The policy advisory board chairperson's report, there is no report for that today. So, tla's the end of our item 5, we'll go ahead and go to our public speakers, if you would like to go ahead andcall th them in, please.6:23 PMWe have Mr. Beekman followed by Mr. [inaudible], go ahead, Mr. Beekman.6:24 PMHi, thank you for your committee meetings this month. I mentioned today that I just wanted -- this seems like the right time with all the committee meeting items that were probably on this issue, around this issue, iwanted to thank yourselves, we're kind of in a dour grim place by mid September here at the vta and we -- funding and budget-wise, I think things were a bit confused and worried, I don't think we're at that place anymore, we are seeing we have a bt of breathing room and we have choices, and I hope we'reall open to that and we've come a long way in the past few m onths, that's step one, what everyone was talking about today, there's going to be 15% of the budget that you're going to have to consider, what are you going to be cut ining that 15%, I hope you can make that clear to advocacy in the next month so ne can work on it and mediate with you what could be good choices. Thank you.6:25 PMThank you, and our next speaker.Mr. Lebron, please go ahead.Thank you, so the first thing I would like to bring to your attention, if you clicked on the link, you don't have a single committee report there, this is basically a script, none of the chairs of any of the reports reported anything. I don't know what transpired during those meetings but the 2020-11-05t21:25:42.1206207-05:00 thing I want to bring to your attention under item 5. 3, I want to give a huge thank you for directorbacker tor rennie for asking the question about whether or not the vta has been maintaining two sets of books, the outset for [inaudible] is that he has -- I -- this has been going on for 20 years and I would like these numbers to be reflected in the presentation for item 7. 1. Thank you.6:26 PMOkay, thank you, and our next speaker, please.Mr. Erman, please go ahead and speak.Thank you, can you hear me?Yes, we can.Thank you, the chairperson of the cac has comments mentioned that they had been looking a t the 2021 draft plan and that will be brouk to the board next week, considering how important this issue is and how pretty much all people were talking about, I don't understand wy the board is essentially devoting onemeeting to 2021 [inaudible] and not working on it piece by piece every month at these meetings seems very strange to me, most public meetings like city councils or school boards, they spend mothers or weeks going over all the details in their budgets working it out and receiving comments and it seems the vtaboard is going to spend one meeting next month and I don't understand why you're not working on it tonight and you're spending time on other ie steps.6:27 PMThank you, that was my last public speaker, elaine, did you have a comment you wanted to make?Yes, chair, I wanted to clarify the standing committee chair reports are in the pdf packet and it's also on the outline on the website, there are five -- under section number 5, thank you.Okay, thank you. so, that's going to take us to item 6 the consent agenda. And this is 6. 1 through 6. 9,members of the public would who would like to address items on consent, raise your hand on the app or press star 9 on your phone, to my colleague, is there anyone who would like to pull any items off consent or add something to consent? And i'm looking in my little panelist screen and I don't see anything. It looks like we have two public speakers and then we'll go ahead and go to a motion, so if you can go to our publicspeakers, please.6:28 PMMr. Beekman followed by Mr. Lebron.I wanted to make clear why we're having this breathing room at this time in November is there's going to be funding patterns from the sate of california that is going to be allowing us a certain amount of -- what we have to consider and at the local level, we have to continue the funding patterns that we can offerourselves at the standard level, they're developing cares act funding financial systems at the state level,next year there's serious issues of foreclosure, of recession, they're preparing ourselves for that, becauseof this, we need to be open at the local level how those funding patterns can help us, we can count on those things a lot but they tl 's still going to be cut and is that's where the dicey things are.6:29 PMThank you.Mr. Lebron, go ahead.Very quick follow-up on the comment I made earlier, if you go to item 6. 4, attachment a, you click on it and you can see both sets of numbers, that's where I got the numbers from, if anybody wants to agree -- did agree with this, go ahead, the material is there in front of you, thank you.Okay, thank you, that was the last public speaker we had, do my colleagues have a motion?Move approval of the consent calendar.That ws larry carr, is there a second?Second, liccardo?Thank you very much, and elaine, could could we have a roll call vote.[inaudible].Aye.Carrrasco?Aye.6:30 PMCortese?Aye.Diep?Aye.Jones?Aye.Liccardo?Aye.Mcalister?Yes.Nunez?Yes.Peralez? i'll come back to you.Sorry, yes.Rennie?Aye for rennie.And I heard Mr. Peralez? hendricks?Yes.And chairperson chavez is absent, motion passed with 11 ayes.To our listening public just so you had a couple of member of the board showed up since we had the roll call and you heard them in that roll call vote, thank you for those people who showed up. We're mauling on to our regular agenda websinger ear at 7. 1, this is about the silicon valley rapid transit, again, members of the public, you know how to raise your hand or press star 9 if you have questions for after thepresentation and if you have stuff to share with us?6:31 PMMr. Vice chair and bard members, I am delighted tonight t o tell you there is not much work, constructionwork left on phase i, and I won't bother you anymore with the item and is so on, I would like t share with you that as you can see on my presentation, that they accepted the entire project and cpuc, revalued and approved. When we opened the line, we had 43 fte's working, today we are at 6 and by christmas, we should be at 0. We're progressing as we planned and I wanted to also share with you that we are working with fda to -- fta to close out the project. This is the typical budget funding profile I share with you, I like to emphasize this is the agreement we work out many years ago with the federal government, sol of youknow the term is full funding grant agreement and that's what the fta reviews every month with us or more frequently at some points. And the final forecast at completion is what i've been telling you for the last five, six months, the project is going to have 45 million net savings. Next phase, please. Now I would like to update you on phase ii. As you know, we've been working very intensively with fta to get ready for us to apply for our epd application and grant, and i'm pleased to acknowledge tonight the hard work by our partners, the city of san jose staff, the city of santa clara, the jpb, caltrans and several utility owners. Just to refresh your memories, that as part o the review process and the readiness fta and as we work in ftaidentifying ten agreements, third party agreements which they defined our most critical agreement rkts critical for risk exposure, cost exposures and they wanted us to have these agreements in place before our application is being submitted. And here they are, we have all ten areements in place, today we -- every two days we have reviews with fta, both headquarters and region 9 here in san francisco and how we are down to three questions and we will try to respond to those questions to them by tomorrow and hopefully we'll be ready to submit. As far as we're cncerned,, we're ready to submit, we want fta to say we're ready to submit. Real estate requisitions are as planned, appraisals is under way and the bart and vta staff continue to work to finish the bart requirements, some of you remember that we need to have all the bartrequirements before we put out any contracts, and o course we continue with our design and development of our procurement documents. Next page, please. Next page, please. This is our schedule and I have some news to share with all of you, you remember I told you a couple of times now that we do a request for industry feedback, we put out the tunnel and we have also our systems contracts and i'm pleased to tell you that last friday, which was the deadline for the contracting consortia to express an interest to workon our job, we got ten, ten responses, and about 6, 7 of these 10 are permanent corporation, any of thesecompanies can build this project, the number one construction corporation in america is part of it, thenumber 2, the number 4, the number 14, i'm pretty sure you know these companies, we are happy to have this participation, this is exactly what we were thinking to get the good market action in responding to us, now starting next week, we're going to start the one on one's and the next time i'll be before youagain, I will have a similar list for our sstems contract, and we're going to brief you there how the projectcompetitiveness looks like, for the tunnel, I see a good competition hre, I hope to tell you the same thing for the systems. That's all I have, Mr. Vice chair, I don't have anything else, i'm here to answer anyquestions you have.6:36 PMOay, thank you, rog, did you want to say something before I went to public comments?Mr. Chair, yes, would you mind going back to your cost summary you had for phase i, that slide. Yes, thank you, I appreciate that. Just at the cmpp meeting about a month ago or so, I did make a statement on this and I just want to expand on that, number one, there are no two sets of books, very clearly I want to state that for the record there are no two sets of books. Vta is a public agency and a heavily regulated agency, all our financial information are pub luckily available, yes, there are two separate reports, not to be conflicted with two sets of books, what [inaudible] is tlking about on this is about the ffga project and the reporting is by fta, if you look at the cost categories, summaries there, for example, 10, 20, 30, 40 is not that they cannot count 1-100, he can, and he's not skipping anything, tey are the fta cost definingcategory and is the report is also dictated by fta because they fund this project, however, we also produce a much more detailed report on all of the costs associate witched the bart project including some of the work that was done but that's not part of it, the ffga application, this was done over ten years ago when vta apply ifed r the full funding grant agreement and fta decided only these elements could be included as part of the fta project for them to fund, that's how this was done, I wanted to clear that, I don't want any member of the public to think that there are two sets of books, there aren't, thank you, Mr. Chair.6:38 PMOkay, great, thank you, to my colleagues, i'm going to go -- let's go to public comment first and we'll see if any of my colleagues have any questions.You have three public comments, [inaudible] followed by Mr. Beekman and tessa. rolan, please go ahead.Thank you so much for clarifying that yu have two sets of reports and apologize for calling them two sets of books. In the other report right now, you have got 1. 1 billion dollars including 26 million dollars in the last year alone, that's where all the state and local funding is and 2020-11-05t21:39:05. 9478676-05:00[inaudible] with regards to phase ii, there is no environmental clearance to the two structures, there is noboard approved funding plan and by the way, the slide with the funding plan was missing from the presentation again, and last but not least, in your funding plan, you have got 2 billion dollars of measure a which are a blatant violation aof the measure a ballot language which codifies all the sovereign differencesin phase ii, thank you.6:39 PMThank you, our next speaker, please.Hi, thank you, item 6.1 was about a 2020 financial statement of review of revenue, so thank you, I wasable to speak on that and thanks. With 48 seconds, 47 seconds, good luck as I was always saying you can bring the bart through st. John through the park and when you consider station kiosk or two on each side of the street, as long as it's erthquake safety, I think that has to be the most important. Good luck in deciding if the arena is a place to have a new bart station or not, that's always been thinking and with 18 seconds, they are really considering in fremont a second along with a capital corridors joint power board,they are considering a second train station, what's aup with that, is that a sign of things to come and that high speed rail will be going to east bay or not, thank you. . Er thank you, or next speaker, please.6:40 PMTessa, please go ahead.Thank you. well, it would be good if you had the city of san jose, yu plained whao item you're on, that that t o be done with our democracy gone, I think we're on 6. 1, revenues and expenses, the revenue widths ear getting, you have to stop getting revenues and be all about capitalist greed, what do I call it, evil, immoral, shellfish and greedy to fund our business as usual and we need to stop -- everything needs to be at home, we have to become hyperlocal, the fact you're not even -- the city of san jose doesn't support itworkers to stay at home, that has to change and everything needs to be hyperlocal, the issue of transit, it needs to be hyperlocal tha,'s why bart needs to stop, we need to cut down bart way back to have twostations if at all and that's it, you know, and we have to be very hyperlocal because we're all staying homewebsinger all need to stay home.6:41 PMOkay. thank you, that was our last public speaker and just so everyone's aware, we've been on item 7.The, -- 7. 1, did my colleagues have any questions that they wanted to ask? I'm not seeing anybody raisetheir hand in my panel here. This was an information only item so I don't think we need to take a vote.That means we're going to move to item 8, and so everyone knows, we'll be taking public comment on item 8 at the end of all the sub pieces to it. And the first item we have here is 8. 1, the general manager's report, myriad, do you have awesome stuff you would like the share with us.6:42 PMThank you, my report is going to be limit today the ie steps that are listed, I want to just make your aware that the information regarding ridership and safety and security is in the folder. Item 8. 1. A is a presentation that's going to be given by andrew burke, our regional transportation services manager, so i'll turn it over to andrew.6:43 PMThank you, thank you, and thank you members of the board, today i'm going the kind of go over with you just an update on our paratransit vehicle preparedness and what we've been doing when it comes to the pandemic with our ada access fleet, so please go to the next slide. So, this slide is just kind of a quick overview of our ridership trends for paratransit, we're still about 70% d own from pre-covid numbers, there was an uptick coming -- going into July but then it kind of leveled out in the august and September when we reinstated the fares. Next slide, please. This slide kind of breaks down what types of trips we'recurrently having and when it came to the one of the last presentations I had, I was asked to break this down, so this is the information that it knd of comes down to, so, you'll note that a a lot of the trips are starting to come back with health care, food and shopping, but with our community centers for instancelike adult daycare, [inaudible] centers, church, community and senior centers, these facilities haven't really started to open up yet which is a lot of where our trips typically are, once that starts to -- those facilitiesbegin to open up, we do mrao ef an influx of ridership will start to come back. We're taking proactiveapproaches wen it comes to the pandemic, each day our driver ares scavenged before entering the facility with a questionnaire of how are you feel, are you showing any symptoms, and if they are, they are required to do a 14 day self-quarantine if they have been suspected of contracting covid-19 and they're unable to come back to work until they have that negative test from the various test sites. Next slide, please. Here is a quick thing of where our mini vans are outfitted with what we're calling driver bbs, it was a proactive measure to allow a safety precaution for our drivers and our passengers to make safe because of that social distancing, we wanted to make sure there was plenty of space for our drivers as well as ourpassengers to be in the vehicle. Next slide, please. We are outfitting our drivers with ppe such as gloves,sanitizer, face masks, face shields, we also have on standby extra masks and sanitizer for our riders, westill stand by vta policy, no mask, no ride, if somebody May have forgotten their mask, we do have some on standby for them just in case. Next slide, please. And again just a little upkeep, our drivers areconstantly going through and keeping the vehicle up to snuff with daily sanitization and even in between trips, they're utilizing cdc approved cleaning materials, we've also ensured the vehicle capacity when it comes to per trips, it's limited to one to two people per trip to ensure that proper social distancing, wehave an exemption in there for family members or households that are traveling together and also when it comes to the sanitization, our driver and is our cleaning crew are - provid sure that they don't miss anyparts of the vehicle. Next slide, please. So, if a driver does test positive or is exposed to covid, what do we do, the first thing we do is make sure we remove the driver from service and tell them to self-quarantine and get tested, the vehicle is removed from service and goes through the deep sanitization. The case is reported to vta as well as the santa clara public health office which is going to contract our contact traceinitiative, so we contact all of the passengers that were in contact with the driver 72 hours prior to when they believe they were exposed and so they let these individuals are now informed and told to self-quarantine or go get tested and once that takes place, we ask the driver to get test and had they're able to return back once they have -- they feel better as well as producing a negative test result for us. Next slide.And with that, board and community member, thank you for that, eel take -- iz eel take questions at this time.6:47 PMI can take questions now or I can wrap up -- we could wrap up the. Gm's presentation and take questions on both items.6:48 PMOkay.The next item which is the government affairs up dailt, the written report is in the packet and I believe Ireferenced the security statistics and preliminary ridership report, so with that, that concludes the gmreport and we're open for questions.Okay, even though we're going to do public comments all a the end, do any of my colleagues have anything of what was just discussed here? I'm not seeing any of my colleagues raise their hands so i'm going the keep going down through here, that brings us to 8. 2 which is the chairperson's report, and cindy didn't leave my any separate specific things but I have a couple of things to review, 8. 2. A, it's now timethat we need to consider the board leadership for 2021, each year we elect our board chair and vice chair for a one year term, according to board policy, we rotate those positions among the representative groups, and for the 2021 term, the board chair shall be selected from any of the representatives from city groups 2-5 which is the northwest, the west valley, south county and the northeast and I hope all you boardmembers know which group you represent. And the board chair is going to be selected from city group 1 which is the city of san jose. So, those eligible for election are those who will be serving on the vta board in 2021 and 2022, any eligible member who wishes to serve should send a letter of interest to the chair and at our December meet, the chair will announce those that have shown interest in serving and we will take nomination from the floor as well and then we will elect the chair and vice chair for 2021. The newly elected chair and vice chair will take office on January 1, 2021. Next, 8. 2. B is we have our proposed 2021 board of director's meeting schedule, it's included in your agenda package with the dates that are proposed for 2021, please review the proposed schedule and notify the board office and there it is on yourscreen, if you have potential conflicts ask we will consider approval of these dates at our December meeting and I would like to make a side note for all of us with complex calendars and stuff, you should go ahead and plug those dates into your calendar for next year as soon as possible. Any of my colleagues have any questions on that? Again, i'm not seeing you guys raise your hand so I assume that means I explained it well. Do any of you have any ie steps of concern or referrals to the administration?6:50 PMI think you explained it really well, gleaner.Mr. Mcalister, did you have an item?6:51 PMI had two ie steps of concern, there's some more rhetorical obligation, this last election in term limit, etc. , we're going -- the vta board is going the lose 9 members of its current board right now and that is a hugedrain of talent, knowledge, experience, wiz come, all wrapped up, so, going forward, I just hope that thedecisions that people make or the people that come forward h ave the same depth that -- and experience and all work together with the gm, continue to move forward wth the vta, that's going to be a huge loss, hopefully there are people in the wing that is will step up, that's one of the things the ad hoc committee was trying to get people to start qualifying people and get them engage and had next year I going to be agreat year to get people engaged because that was a huge learning curve. That was one of my concerns.The other concerns I had is the recent discussion that vta is doing about their ten year allocation of measure b money, I hope -- I know there is a transparency that the vta is working on very strongly andhave a website and so forth, there is going to be a lot of innuendos and talk about what's going on, but vta's doing a great opportunity to do public discussion and transparency and I appreciate that but this is one area that's going to be very important that we maintain that transparency and everybody has an opportunity to discuss throughout the cities, throughout the region to do that, so those are my two area of concerns and that's it, chair.6:52 PMYeah, I think to your item about budget discussions, those are planned to go through the committees sothat's in process and being scheduled and then to the comment about the board, just so everybody doesn't freak out, the number that john used there is board members and alternates that are coming off and I have already made a suggestion to -- and I think the chair is going to write a letter and make sure we'resending a letter to all the appointing agencies so they can get some information about -- and some of the concerns we've had about board governance and stuff to what, john, you were just referring to, for the new appointees that are going to come. I don't see anybody else's hands raised because john's going to put his hand down now. So, with that, let's go ahead and go back to public comments here for item number 8. And so, staff, if you could give us our pub luck comments, please. . Er we have four publiccomments, tessa followed by aaron, eugene and roland, tessa, please go ahead.6:53 PMAlright, okay, teresa, I don't know if teresa o'neill won, I had a good talk with teresa o'neill because shehas what we call, and what I appreciate you all talking actfinger what is it called, institutional history, she'sbeen on it a long time, she supports the bs rapid transit and -- which has been a total failure, so i'm reallysuggesting to your governance board and I was telling this to teresa, when we need to have an institutional memory person on the board, you need to redo your board, whatever it was the grand jury said, you have a bad governance product and you flexed to improve that, we need to keep the institutional memory and I wanted teresa o'neill, I know you're talking about a change and this is really critical and we need of course to realign measure b and bart needs to be reae lined and we flexed to have that be an openprocess because we need to realign measure b so we can have the funding for our local transit that needs to be --6:55 PMThank you, and our next speaker, please.Mr. Mo rr oy, please go ahead and speak whenever you're ready.Aaron, can you unmute yourself.I would like to -- can you hear me?Yes w can.I would like to seak to the ada paratransit and the covid preparedness update. I want to thank andrew burke and delora corona and the general manager for really taking these precautions seriously, I support what's in the package and the only thing I would add is that god forbid a passenger gets covid on any of your vta service vehicle, I would hope vta staff along with the contractor would work with the passenger on getting some sort of covid testing either through the county or their private insurance and that the contractor would kindly pay any co-pays or deductible that person May have. Thank you.6:56 PMOkay, thank you, and our next speaker, please.Mr. Bradley, please go ahead and speak.Good evening, board members, can everybody hear me?Yes.I'm the ceo of the silicon valley transit users, I want to thank the vta that handles covid, what I founddisturbing even having my own mother pass away a couple of weeks ago, the fact that one of our drivers was perished from covid, the fak that vta hadn't told anybody which bus lines she used before she hadcontacted covid and passed on, I want to thank staff for notifying me that she had taken -- driven the early morning 57 or late evening 66 bus lines, the fact that vta never notified the public about which bus lines this -- that ms. Lopez drove before she contacted covid and died disturbs me especially when have beeninger -- vta wants to establish trust, you have to be honest with your public and establish trust. Thank you.6:57 PMThank you, and to our next speaker.Mr. Lebron, please go ahead.Thank you, and the first thing I would like to do is to express my appreciation to [inaudible] and the staff for the precautions they're taking to protect the most vulnerable riders in the system which are the people that use paratransit. With regards to Mr. Mcalister's point about what just happened to the board, basically that's what you get for having appointed members and until you change the system, you pss a legislationand you have members who are elected and preferably without term limits, just like the bart board, then nothing's going to change, so I thought I would put that out there for your consideration. Thank you.6:58 PMOkay, thank you.That concludes our public comment.So, that brings us to the end of item 8 and nw we're at item 9 which is our closed issing, we're going to berecessing to closed session now, I would like all my board members to please go, I think you've got instructions on a separate link to be able to get to our closed session and I would like to remind mycolleagues that when we ear done in closed session, we need everybody to come back to this session so we can close out our meeting, so does anybody have any questions or concerns about how to get to closed session, does anybody need elaine to send them the link or anything again?6:59 PMI rsent the link at 5:45 pam today, so if you can check your e-mail.Everybody should have that, with that, we're going to go ahead and adjourn to our closed session and then come back here at the end and I look forward to seeing all of my colleagues in closed session. And I suppose I should go ahead and say what we're doin in closed session is item a, it's public employeeperformance review per government code 54957 for our general manager, and b, a public employee performance evaluation for our general counsel, again, government7:59 PMRecording was PausedCode section 54957, so see you all in closed session. ( meeting in closed session ). See my back up with colleagues. Elaine, are you there? Elaine, can you hear me?8:00 PMYeah, I can hear you.I want to make sure somebody was. So, elaine or evelyn or somebody from the b oard, do you egoism hear me and d we have enough people to go ahead and restart?Yes.Okay, so with that, we're reconvening, we ended our closed session and we're reconvening here in the main room and as it relates to our closed session, there's no reportable action for our closed session items 9. 1a and 9. 1b sx, if there's no other action from my colleague, i'm going to go ahead and adjourntonight's meet, thank you all very much for attending and we'll see you at our follow-up meetings, thank you very much, and that's the enof the meeting. And I did want to go ahead and say we are closing tonight's meeting in memory of audrey lopez and so before everyone leaves, if we can just have a 2020-11-05t23:01:11. 0781210-05:00 moment of silence. ( moment of silence ). And thank you all very much,that's the enof tonight's meeting. Thank you very mch.