Thank you very much. let's all rise for the pledge of allegiance.America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.Let's go to the items for the day.We have a new item. 8. 1. And I want to remind my colleagues that we do need you all here for a closed session later. Our first item changes.5:40 PMAre there any other changes? do we have a motion and second to approve the orders of the day? Public speaker: government audit just now. I would respectfully request that you pull item 7. 2 to start thediscussion about the financial issues. .5:41 PMMadam chair, I would be interested in pulling 6. 2 on consent agenda.Thank you, any other requests? Do we have a motion and second to approve the modified agenda?Second. member pralez?I know we have people that May want to speak. Okay. If they don't wish to speak on it, we won't pull it. .5:42 PMOkay. all in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? motion passes. so, we do not have any awards or commendations on tonight's agenda. We'll move to item 3 on public comment. We have some comments. Okay, i'm going to read some. All right. ( calling names )5:43 PMPublic speaker: hi, we've all been through a lot. With the few places taking place, at the community level,we are between a rock and hard place. We have to evaluate our own humanity at this time at the local level. I think a lot needs to be accomplished with well-meaning guidelines with this organization and dedication to continue dialogue and negotiations, remediation and conversation. This is a difficult time. I do not want to cause problems, but I have important subjects I mice wanted to talk about at vta public meetings in the fall of 2019. With 70 seconds left, a few of the items I would like to speak about, the excitement and hope of what there can be what has been a 180 day vta an lpl data collection policy brought down to a 90 day policy. The help of the state of california ccpa, a 90 day policy can come down to a 40 day policy next year. From this hope and excitement, I hope to eventually also convince yourselves that it's time to consider how big valley surveillance apps with questionable practices can have 90-120 day review policy. Finally I hope we can discuss thighs guidelines and talk about our recession process that wedon't need to have.5:45 PMThank you..Public speaker: good evening, director, my name is andrew boone, a candidate for san jose city council district 6, vote by March 3, 2020 if you can. I'm here again to urge you to reconsider your various policiesthat prioritize widening highways and building increasing capacity for the traffic highway system and to our major roads in santa clara county instead of funding public transit service. Funding public transit serviceand creating the public transit system that more people can use should be our priorities as vta board of directors. Your priority should not be increaseing the highways for cars. That is not a solution for the future and not a future for sustainability. That is the oposite. You are making moves to change the process to add more capacity to the inter changes that we have and plan new inter changes. There is billions of dollarstied to this decade long policy. If we can get 1 more lane on the highway, that will relieve traffic congestion. This policy has been failing for many years. The board still can't recognize that. The way to deal with this is not going to be adding new highway and new interchanges. Reconsider doing that fromreallocated funds from the 16 measure b. That should be done as soon as possible. Thank you.5:47 PMThank you. public speaker: good evening, everyone, it's really important that we especially as we call the netherlands, all of our out landers from the furthest part. We really need your support. So reallocating funds to bus instead of perhaps having to use those bus funds to support the short falls of the bart system.It's really important that we get more uses more frequent. We really appreciate the opportunity to have had a trial with bus route 65 that we didn't get the ridership is we needed. We appreciate that opportunityto at least try that and work with you on those items. You will hear more from monica, a fellow member of our board. Thanks again for your time this evening. .5:48 PMThank you, so after we have next we have scott and then aaron, naseem. Public speaker: good evening,directors, I would like to echo what the two speakers said and give you little reading assignment that I have been in the midst of fascinating history between the struggle of rail and road and the 20th century.It's getting there. It's a great book explaining how we got in this mess where the only thing e can do is widen our highways. This book that I have been reading has shown once again that this is not the ultimateway to spend our money. Let's try to learn from our mistakes in the past. I have been a student my wholelife and it's taken me my whole 3 life to find this book. I would encourage everyone to become educated about what it is we are rubber stamping. Thank you.5:49 PMThank you very much. public speaker: hello, my name is aaron. I'm a resident of oakland. I don't own car.As you might imagine i'm very excited of the extension of bart to silicon valley. It's going to save me a lot of time. Even when bart is downtown san jose diridon is not going to help very much. I would encourage you to continue the investment with bus service and highway frequency and dedicated bus lanes. That is going to mean cities reallocating into the streets and reallocating money to capital projects that will addcar capacity and increase vmt and all the solution that comes to that and the frequent transit service. I also think it's going to mean you might need to revisit some of the designs that you have made with the bart extension especially the massively built stations. We don't need a two story mezzanine underground at the station to have access to ingres egresand egress -- ingres and egress. Public speaker: hello, it isincredibly important to not cut public transport while we are reducing carbon. This is not going to happen.Trying to cut express buses is going to disproportionately affect people of low-income. That's an issue we face very time vta chooses handful of bus lines because of budgets. You have a budget. It's been approved. Our voters are thrilled about throwing money to transportation solutions, but those solutionshave to change. We have to adapt. When a measure is passed years before and some consents are putaround to how it's going to be spent, ou as leaders of transportation are responsive to new technologies and new ideas and right now, clean energy, electric buses are the cheapest fastest way to get from point ato point b. Please don't consider more buses. I'm a driver. I drive all over and I hate my car. Don't wantmore roads, I don't want you to expand it. I want you to provide these choices to me and my family. Thank you so much.5:53 PMHi. i'm miles. I ride the bus 4 times a week. I have seen pull cord to stop the bus is broken and this has caused issues with people who are disabled as you or I to reach the pull court order. So I would say this same bus that I have seen through the period of seven days it had this issue and I think the vta shouldinspect the buses to look for issues like that which could cause issues for people ith less ability than you are. Thank you.5:54 PMThank you very much. tom tanner, followed by nick cortez. Public speaker: good evening. I live in morgan hill and work in north san jose and vta 121 bus rider for about 15 years and I have used caltrain beforethat. Let me thank you all for your service and I especially want to thank council member blankly for all her work she's doing on the 121 express. It took me 2 hours to drive to work yesterday from morgan hill.That's happening a lot these days. Jobs are expanding in north san jose and north county. It is more reasonable, I didn't say cheaper, but cheaper to buy a house in morgan hill and those areas are growing rapidly as well with now over 100,000 people combined. The jobs are here and the workers live down here.What is vta's mission? That is to provide the connection between jobs and where people live. We don't have light rail in south council. Caltrain is very limited. The proposed 168 goes elsewhere. The 121 express bus is the best connection between the jobs in south county. It's the most direct route and has the shortest travel time. It's the lowest cost to the rider. Least number of transfers provides the most continuous time to be online and for work. That's really important. All of this leads to less stress and enhanced quality of life. We need the express line with the wide variety of times and times per day. Don't forget to connect the dots to the jobs and housing. Make the reason why jobs are staying in the lght.5:57 PMThank you very much.Good evening, board, hank you. I'm a public school teacher and a resident of the area as well. I would love not to have a car. And as a public school teacher, I would like to see my students using public transit but we are not able to do that because of the situation especially in the outlying areas in san jose with very limited routes and very inconvenient for us to use public transit. I really ant o ask the board to consider expanding highways and more money on automotive routes. The age of the car is done. We need to move on and understand that public transit is the future and we need to invest in it. I would urge you to considerprograms like offering our high school students free transit cards and things to encourage them to use public transit and expanding the routes around our schools and our communities to more an accessively use these routes. Please consider these increased routes and better public transit. Thank you.5:58 PMThank you very much. daniel? Public speaker: hello, board members. This is my first time here. I'm here is to discuss us use. Sorry if I appear a little nervous. Everyday I use 121 to get back to san jose and to santa clara. Everyday I see students use this bus and I see old and disabled to get from place to place. I see elementary school kids use the bus to get home. I ass by my old medical school middle school, I pass by my old high school, I see kids getting on off central court and I see how the businesses, it's people from other parts of the county where their prosperity is vital from those people. I also take bus 65 to my internship and see people with special needs who need this bus to take it back to their homes. I also see my fellow san jose students to get home to other parts of the county using bus 65. So I urge the board to increase the operations budget by realigning measure b funds for transit and highway and more funding foroperations. Thank you for listening to me.6:01 PMThank you very much. public speaker: hello, board. My name is marshall. I signed up to run for city council. It was when santa clara declared this area a state of emergency. It was a place where I wanted toraise my children. Today, as the board of vta, you have an opportunity to build a 3 future of transportation for my community. A future that focuses on accessible free electric high quality transportation to everycorner of every community for my future. And i'm implore you to ake action on this now and to divest in numerous projects that are not for our future highway expansion, one of them. Because if you don't do this, my peers and I will get into office and do it for you. Thank you. .6:02 PMThank you..Monica, james whiteman, dean bradley. Public speaker: my name is monic monica. I'm a student at san jose state. As a result of the fires, this air quality is terrible. This is a map and as you can see there is a lot of red and orange and that is not good. You know, as I have said previously, over 40% of ghg emissions come from cars. The decisions you make on this board can have a huge impact. You can make a decision that dramatically affects transit. This has been too inactive for these solutions when a solution already exist. Come back to create new express to connect people to major job centers. You can give buses and signal prior and make them all frequently for a fraction of the cost. I know that it won't be easy to do these things. It's going to take a lot of courage to change directions. This can be your legacy. You can be responsible for one of the best transportation agencies. This is one of the worst transit agencies. We have been coming to these meetings for months and months and we fund most of vta with our tax dollars. I would like to help with my tax dollars to help improve my life and breathe easier.6:04 PMJames? public speaker: this is the thing, I saw that they were putting fences downtown for the light rail and I said you are putting fences over there and when is that project going to be stopped? When is that going to continue? If someone can explain to me, I would really appreciate it. On the light rail, some strange said he was going to throw me off the car. Anybody that says that, I think e should call the police on them. Also last night, another reason you should put fences downtown is people have been crossingover the tracks. I'm afraid someone is going to get hit by one of those things. When is the project going to get done. If you can explain it to me or send me some stuff. My address is 1131 north bird street, san jose, california. I would like to know when bart is going to start.6:05 PMIf you can talk to eugene. public speaker: good evening. It's a sad comment when a person like me has to drive all the way from monterey county to tell you that you need to reallocate and have real services for the county. This is the biggest greenhouse gas emissions and I am forced to breathe this horrible air. Imoved here to silicon valley where i'm basically forced to acquire a private automobile. It's pastime that vta really put emphasis on bus service in santa clara county and silicon valley. After all the bus is the biggest move and real heart of public transit in this valley. Always has been and always will be.Unfortunately, the current priorities with vta will be building nothing but highway expansions and more freeway lanes which gets more crowded over and over again over ten years. I have yet to read one report from vta for the highway project and that's because there isn't any. I have gone all over the world 3 and you will find that hey go obsolete within ten years. That's not what silicon valley should be. We should be setting the trends and not have the same ones. Let's bring this to silicon valley for everybody to use. Public speaker: madam chair, good evening, first and foremost, I would like to thank you for your quick actionregarding crime on the system. At the last board meeting you heard my tips regarding this issue. It has made a big difference, thank you. 2020 will be a momentous year. The current president will no longer be in office and this country will enter into a new era. But vta will not continue to fall as it currently stands.This will mark the third year of cuts. It also marks 15 years since the grand jury first published their first report rebuking this board sitting today and its structure. The most recent report cited this board as disconnected and overly political. When will the contents of this board be acted upon by he board and when will discussion occur? As I look here, I see a number of politicians from our local cities. Mayor liccardo, you and I are next door neighbors. I live next door to city hall. You have a city to run. A lot of issues to be taken care in san jose. You shouldn't be sitting on this board. Chappie jones, you run thiscounty. You have a day job. We should have this board with elected officials dedicated to running a better organization. Thank you very much. .6:09 PMThank you very much. next we have damon. Followed by ( calling names ) public speaker: hi, i'm damon. I am a political science major in deanza. I used to ride the bus the last full year. There are many students and people like me with vta system is no longer usable. You created inconvenience for a lot of people in the bay area. Let alone accessibility. Plus the cost. I hope the bus keeps running. .6:10 PMThank you.Edward?Hello, my name is edward. i'm currently a deanza student. I have been living in san jose for five years now. And I have been in those five years without a car and the only way I can rely on transportation was the bus system, the vta, the 23 in particular. I have noticed that it's very hard for people who have to rely on the bus because they have to make certain quotas and time. When they don't have the cars to do that, they have to rely on the bus to get around. If the bus will continue, there will be less cars and greenhousegas emissions and better for the city of california in california. Thank you very much.6:11 PMThank you. allison? Public speaker: if I come across as an insolent brat, I apologize. Why # is it necessary to give funds -- why are you doing that? Are you supposed to help the people? Mayor liccardo, are yousupposed to help the people? Why does it feel like you aren't aren't? Public speaker: hi, my name is zoey. I can't afford to keep a car. I would ask that you work other than public transit. The climate problem isimportant. It's important for our people to keep them. We need to get to and from work and pay the rent.This is a matter of life or 3 death for those relying on transit to get to medical appointments. It can mean the difference between a stable home. Some of us take public transit because we have no choice. Thank you. .6:12 PMThank you. ( calling names ) next speaker, please. The public speaker: hello, my name is sylvia bonilla, an intern at deanza. This was a program created by deanza this year. The reason we started the program isbecause a lot have expressed their interest. Deanza is a community college so we don't provide housing. A lot of our students are commuters. I get out and sit n two hour traffic when I only live 20 minutes away from deanza. A lot of people feel we should fix the bus system so a lot of us can use it. Many have expressed they are envious of tech companies that provide their employees the charter bus to get to and from home. If our city would provide the similar service to improve that service to be almost comparative to that, that a lot of them would take advantage of it and would use the bus system. One of the things that deanza does already is they give us access to clipper cards. The students have the clipper cards but we do not want to use the bus system because it is ineffective. I have aken the bus and it takes me more than two hours. If I took the car, it would have taken me about 25 minutes. If we allocate the money from measure b instead of building a highway, I think it would benefit deanza and the surrounding areas. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, i'm jamie, a 16-year-old student. My colead just arrived. She's late. I represent passionate citizens is who marched with me. They do not believe there is enough being done about thiscrisis. Unless we act with urgency, we will live to see the end of the world in our lifetimes. Thank you to city of san jose for passing the climate emergency. We are seeing a trend that we do not want to see interrupted. But you have completely ignored this. In fact you have been cutting fund so much that we are 250 buses short promised to us in 2000. Mayor liccardo says that we will get electric vehicles but that's not possible especially those that can't afford to get a vehicle. If you are black or latinx will not be able to afford a car. This is an environmental issue and a social justice issue. On the upside, this is a job that we could have. Stand up for your community. Have a conversation and do some outreach. What can be done to expand the bus system. Stop spending so much on highways and allocate the funds on bus service.Stand up to the promise you made.6:16 PMThank you very much. public speaker: hi, I go to san jose ity college. I usually ride the 25. I am from the east bay, and I know that the bart was going to saint james park, although there is a lot of activities going on down there and they have restaurants, I think t would be a good idea personally to reconsider going to saint james park or if we are going to get a map of the new, because this is san jose, so this is justrecently started. So, maybe like a safer location, and if it's going around like or is it going to be underground. If I can be a part of anything, that's why i'm here. Thank you. .6:18 PMBernice? if bernice could speak to this young woman. Next we have roland lebron. Public speaker: good evening, my name is rland, and i'm not running for san jose city council district. But the reason i'm addressing you this evening is because of what is going to take place at city hall in about 40 minutes. I will have to leave you and I will tell you why. At 7:00 is going to be the scoping for the eil. Most of you don't know about this. The scoping period is extensive. It enters November 22nd, which is 15 days. So what will my comments consist of? I'm probably one of the strongest supporters for the arrival of google. But what I will be commenting about is the street grid that was probably designed by russia russian -- I call that design 100. One other thing i'm most concerned about is every single possibility for emergency access to the caltrain between santa clara and san jose has been eliminated. I will leave now for this meeting. If you are still here, I will come back and join you. Thank you.6:19 PMThank you. ( calling names ) next speaker, please. Please. .6:20 PMHi. everyone. I'm an international student from deanza college. I'm here to suggest that we should allocate from the highway to the vta system. I have been living and studying here for almost a year without a car.Actually my expectations for the vta's public transportation was low before I came here because my friend told me that. But when I truly experienced it, I think though it's not 100% satisfying, it's still acceptable and reasonable. However the shock came to me when I see the omparison between the rules of 2020because I see a lag back behind. We are seeing the last frequency for bus. That's inconvenient for studentslike me who don't own a car. So, I think we need a more powerful vta system. Thank you. .6:21 PMThank you very much. wilson? Public speaker: hello. I come from china and I want to tell you a story. My friends said you have to buy a car. I was wondering why they told me that. I didn't understand, but it'strue, the public transportation system is really bad, it's really horrible. I don't think the location could really effectively be helpful for the city in san jose. Like compared with public transportation. No matter ifit's environmental so the best way to get rid of this is to allocate more funds and remove the stigma of public transportation. .6:22 PMThank you for coming. peter? Public speaker: good evening, board, i'm peter, currently a student at berkeley deanza. What I heard about the bay area, we don't have the money to buy a car. For hours I sat on a bus for hours trying to get a good education at deanza. As i'm here now, it's upsetting for me where it takes an hour to get to san jose and where I can use that time from berkeley to san francisco. During my time at deanza, and on behalf of 18,000 students, public transit is their lifeline to get to school and for their families to get to the hospital because they can not afford cars or electric ehicles and survive traffic because they don't have the time to give. And I wish I didn't have to be here away from my studies to tell you that we need better public transit not just for the sake of climate, but also on behalf of the people that you promised public transit to during the measure b campaign. My family voted for that and mycommunity, my neighborhood we all voted for this believing that we would get better public transit.Promises are made and not being kept because since 2000, buses have been ut and buses have been decreased which wasn't promised during the measure b campaign. Public speaker: hi. Since I don't have my car, I take uber or take a bus therefore i'm concerned when I know there is no public transportation.The students at deanza college have clipper cards. However, the reason why we don't use it frequently is that the bus is inefficient. Usually the bus comes every 30 minutes which means there is only two buses an hour. If I miss it or my friends miss it, we have to take uber because we are otherwise late for a class or event. It makes sense that people don't use the bus service since it takes way more time. This way, people would better choose to buy a car rather than taking the bus. However, we are in a vicious cycle since putting more cars into the roads ake traffic even worse. And also it emissions would increase as well. The heavy traffic congestion would always exist. Therefore, I want to urge the board to set out a workshop to discuss improving bus service through measure b allocations from highways to transit operations. Thanks. .6:26 PMThank you very much or coming. Coming. .6:27 PMAdam? public speaker: hi. My name is adam. I regularly ride the bus transit. I'm a resident of campbell and ride the bus and light rail. I request that capital funds be spent on transit rather than highways. Every ten years, it's maybe another lane will fix traffic and it never does. E don't need hyper loop or monorail.The transportation is paint for bus lanes. People take the bus now because they have no choice which is why they are under utilized and people don't have a better alternative. Making the busses more useful and dropping the frequency will make the buses more useful. I'm very excited about the bus on 26 as an example. If more people take the bus when they don't specifically have to, it will make the system moreenvironmentally helpful and independent and more efficient.6:28 PMPublic speaker: hi, my name is helen. I'm 15 years old and I came here on one of your buses. Vta used to have a much better bus system. If you reallocate measure b funds from highways to your bus service, you can have a better bus service again. Maybe it means I will be able to take the bus to a friends houseinstead of begging parents to take time out of their busy day to drive me. This will continue to ensure the well-meaning folks who don't have or able to afford cars. Our society needs to provide public transit service and they need to be better. How can we call silicon valley to be an illndustrial innovation. I urge the board to set up a workshop to improving the bus service. Our students dependent depend on you making the right choices. Thank you for your time. Public speaker: good evening, I have spoken to you several times before about the concern about reallocating funding money for funding transport for measure b. I'm a very proud person of the strike. I'm a resident of san jose. We really need to do our best to get as much greenhouse gasses out of the air. Some of you know my father is british and I have lived in france and they have really great public transportation here. We really could do better here in silicon valley having a more world class public transportation and better serving our marginalized 3 communities communities. When I came here, I was stuck in traffic. There is lots of traffic. Please consider reallocating moneys from measure b. Thank you very much. Public speaker: hi, my name is neal. A cupertino resident. I was here before and at the time vta faced a tough situation. The proposal was part of a will large large larger austerity project.We worked with a lot of you in this room and I see your faces to ensure there was a more equitable path. I see we are in the same situation again. We have seen studies that show adding more highway options doesnot reduce traffic but it can increase traffic. Of course the south bay is a very unique space. We have run the system very 3 poorly and difficult to run a transit network system. The solution is not to talk our wayout of it. We already have a solution. It's the pavements people ride the bus and they rely on it and they have access to it. The solution is not to cut back on bus service and highways. We have solutions that work. Cities across the country can do it and I think we can do it as well. I look forward to yourpartnership. Thank you. .6:33 PMThank you very much. thanks for everyone's comments. We do not have any public hearings. We are going onto item 5 which is committee reports. For item 5. 1. 5. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter)6:34 PMOod evening, chairCouncil member teresa o'neill: and vice-chair chavez and members of the board. The valley transportationauthority received a report on the vta project and it was an informative report of the vta 1 tour of the milpitas and bart stations. The meeting broke up into four groups and discussed the vta transit service plan and discussed the vta project. The educational site gave the committee an opportunity to see the enterprise project. On October 8th regular agenda, there was a grant program criteria. Community members and the staff had a robust discussion on criterion values and possibly to allow candidate projects to compete with vta service. Ultimately, the cap was not able to reach a consensus on recommendation to adopt the draft criteria. The committee will have another opportunity to provide input at our next meeting when they establish the amendments. That concludes my report. Thank you very much mat, marty. We have a member of the public wishing to comment on the report. Public speaker: hi, if it's okay with you to speak to the cac meeting itself or to speak specifically to the report? I would like to speak to the cacmeeting. There was a transit overview of the past year of the transit practices. That was at the cac meeting if that's okay. I would like to offer a few words about that subject. It sort of relates to a lot ofwhat public comment was about and the difference in working with highway funding as compared to what can be transit issues. You know, a lot of people ome here and they love their transit. They love public transit and it's really important to people. Words have been spoken here to not sell the farm when there isgood public transit practices that we should always ollow as there is a private idea to look at transit ideas and to have that government practice is always giving people a good feeling. I think that's the kind of thing we are asking for. You guys, I know you get orders from above, from the federal, the lord of the transportation and just how life works in this world. So you make decisions often that exclude good publictransportation ideas. And I hope we can develop a way here at vta but to always be considering that. Even as there are god's of above telling us it's not time to have public transportation, we can still find ways to really practice that. And what that can be. I guess that's all I have to say.6:38 PMThank you very much. that concludes his report. Next report. 5. 2. Policy advisory committee (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (hendricks)Thank you, I will report on this meeting. There is continuing discussions on the vta policy and we received a report on the measure b model competitive program nd made several recommendations for changes to be there. Good update that was done by the work from converting to los to bmt which is important for all of us to get a good understanding of. I would like to highlight this one piece. I received information from the express bus program and to south county including route 21. The community raised concerns about the same service in the route to the counties. That's where I will end right there and our next meeting onNovember 14th. .6:39 PMThank you very much, glen. for the standing committee reports, I will provide if reports reports, we had a meeting on September 17th. We reviewed the agenda items, 6. 3, 6. 4, 6. 5 and we reviewed 7. 1 on onight's agenda, we were unable to provide a formal recommendation to the board. The enf received an update to the operations agreement to the a san jose transit authority and we recommended approval for tem 6. 2 on tonight's agenda. The audited comprehensive financial report cafr and the financial report for atu pension plan and retiree and other post employees opeb fiscal year 2019. We also review #ed themodifications for the vta board and performance evaluation. We have no report 5. 4. Now to 5. 5. 5. 5. Ad hoc board enhancement committee chairperson's report. (verbal report) (mcalister) .6:41 PMThank you, chair. we try to give you brief updates so when our recommendation come to you, you have an idea of what we are looking for nd you have a chance to talk to us before and you have a sense of what weare doing. We met November 7th. And this meeting focused on a status update from rsm, the independent consultant conducting the vta's assessment and phase 1 deliverables consisting of private information adherence testing for four areas. They will be speaking a little bit later and hopefully more insight. The areas were meeting attendance and meeting a quorum and public notices. There was no significantdeviations or major lack of compliance in those areas, however there are several potential opportunities forenhancement especially meeting attendance. Committee members engaged in a spirited debate on potential enhancements. The compliance were not individual but more of the standard of expectations.6:42 PMEvaluation of these and other factors will continue and the final results and the consultants recommendations will be included in the final assessment. The report scheduled at the committee meeting for the 17th meeting. I need to inform you that the board and this will give you a sense of the frustration or the goal that we are trying to achieve that there was a survey sent out to the 3 whole board. There is 18 members that -- 19 people received the survey. I think it's 18 but 12 board members and four alternates. 8 people replied. Four alternate, four board members. As we are trying to engage the board as we try to assess how to get the board better engaged, the lack of response is somewhat disappoint representation. Hopefully we can send out that survey again once you get an idea for how the ad hoccommittee can engage on what needs to be done. The colleregret that the boards has not been able to do it. We'll remind you and hopefully we'll send you out another link. Lastly, the committee felt that given the breath of this assessment, it will benefit our colleagues to receive an up the on the process and I mentioned earlier. As a precursor to the final moments. I asked to give a brief presentation. Thank you for coming.6:44 PMThank you, member mcallister. I will go through it little bit to accommodate john's comments. The enhancement committee was created as a result of the board's 2019 priorities. We met three times and we have the meetings for expecting deliverables by december. A lot of this effort is to seek effort from the board and the agencies and especially a different of outreach efforts we are making to the public and theriding community as well. We'll talk a little bit further in the presentation about benchmarking and leading best practices and at the end of the process we'll come back with a recommendation for the board's consideration. Here is a quick summary of the project scope. What we have been telling people is this is not necessarily a review of independent individual actions nor a management review. We are taking a look at a number of previous studies and organizational design of the work done in the past. We are aware of the three grand jury report and would see the city's individual responses. Many of the scope areas areidentified on the right and they are typical areas with average board selections and committee structure.Some of the more interesting ones are looking at the effectiveness s to the board and what measures might be taken to self assess and what measures might be taken to include collective performance. As the director mentioned lastly we've also looked at compliance with a variety of different governance documents following the administrative code that vta has internally. The next slide is information received on going and information received from you and members of the public will be confidential. Some of the methods up there for the outreach. We encourage anyone who maybe in the public or special interest groups whoparticipate and in the community meeting and the webcast that will be upcoming. There has been a process page established on the website and dedicated phone line and lastly we've made a number of outreach to individual city councils through social media. Additionally, we med wi-- met with the advisory committee and the association and we have had a number of interviews with board members and a number of you have submitted surveys. Thank you for taking the time to help us with that effort. We are also looking at a number of transit organizations and another component is looking at six benchmark agencies. These are not necessarily operating peers. They are different models based upon differing governance objectives and structures. We are going to get input. I will briefly make the certaincharacteristics of the board that are of interest. For example la metro, there is eight different cities in thecounty and they use that selection committee and recommend some appointees and chicago has a different model and government business leaders and others. Try mek, rtd has a different model. And dart is also interesting because they have some appointments by combination of sales tax revenue andpopulation. New mexico then lastly, utah is another unique model because they have three full-time boardmembers. What we hope to do here is interview a number of these people starting next week and using the best practices to learn from that which might be applicable to this situation. So some of the projectchallenges and the key dates. One which we have learned is there is limited studies on transportation and municipal governance. While we think this is a great issue, there is ome quotes that we ound from thetransportation research board study that we mentioned in the second bullet, and there is no formula for what standard board should look like because vta is a different with your multimodal operations and responsibilities. From a peer perspective, that is why we took that different approach. Lastly, as we looked at recommendation as we bring to the board enhancement committee, part of with a we -- what we wantto do is follow recommendations. We recognize there is different tiers and challenges with thoserecommendations. Lastly with respect to the timeline, you can see that we've got another meeting later this month and the final deliverable meeting in December with the bec. At that time these are all public meetings, of course, at that time we'll present some of our final recommendations and take guidance as to whether we come to the gmac committee or back to the board. That concludes a very brief presentation. I will be happy to take some questions or input.6:51 PMAre there any questions from the board? Dr. Peralez?It's not a question but a comment. I hope it's encouraging. I completed the survey last night. I thank elaine for nudging me. I appreciate participating on that manner. I recommend not doing it on your phone.It's more difficult. I completed it so it is possible. I will tell you initially it was lost in the shuffle. We get a number of survey request mostly the scheduling ones from the vta and my staff follows nd filters them if you will. Didn't even see this. I want to put another plug in to board members to complete this survey as stated. Maybe that changed after last night. But to complete this survey and to recommend carving out time potentially next month or next month in committee meeting. It doesn't take a significant amount of time, maybe 15 minutes or so depending on how much thought you want o put into it. I would even recommend carving out time in committee if need be if we are still not getting a response because I do think it's important.6:53 PMTo comment on the survey, I thought I had done it and elaine e-mailed me and said fill out the survey and I said I did. And she said you didn't. I did and what happened, your question 21, to rank, put me over-the-top and I got to 21 and I fell asleep. I did finish it this morning and it is done now, but I actually thought I had done it and forget and got bogged done on 21. So be careful with questions like that. It was really starting to get long and I had a really good intention to get it done and eventually you run out of steam. It could have been easier to get through.6:54 PMWe have a member of the public that wishes to speak to this item. Public speaker: thank you for letting me speak. Thank you for the report. Thank you chair peralez for the filling out the survey. Having to send out surveys to people myself, I know how challenging it is to get a response. Mr. Rennie, thank you as well 3even if you were falling asleep. Chairman peralez, you didn't see this come through, I understand you have a lot of staff and a lot of people helping you out. You know what I think it is, you wear too many hats.Chairman rennie, you as well. Every person on this board wear too many hats. You have a day job. This board should be elected and should comprise of members of the public like myself or many sitting behind me today. I see a lot of problem with chairman not attending the meetings or not having the time or plain having something else to do. It's time to get members of the public that are genuinely interested in making transit work for this valley on the board. I'm not saying you guys aren't interested. I can see it amongst your faces. There are some that are paying attention, there are some that aren't. As far as that's concerned, we should be addressed those that are interested in vta and the service. Thank you for your time. .6:55 PMThank you very much. that takes us to the consent calendar item 6. 1 through 6. 7 and item 7. 2. We have members of the public. Okay. 6. 2 will be considered part of the regular calendar. For items on the consentcalendar. I have ( calling names ) public speaker: hi, members of the board. Working partnerships. I want to point out a couple things on the consent agenda. Item 6. 5, as part of the contract as prospect, we thinkyou should consult with operators as part of their outreach as experts and o partners to address any customer safety concerns. Item 6. 3. I developed a bad habit of looking over old meeting minutes and agendas and looking at the revenues and spends for fy 19 and looking at the old adopted budget prior to the budget augmentation and seeing that 3 transfer of roughly $6 million when the budget had only $5million as part of the ransfer made me think about whats the expenditure plan for the capital program and I couldn't find it. Looking at for fy 20-21, will spend on the program and I want to make sure there is a plan for fy 18 and 19. When I was on the d hoc committee I remember looking at the adopted budget from 2017 and I remember there being not this new variance and now it's being taken out in one year instead oftwo. Just wanted to make sure there was an expenditure plan for it. Thanks. Public speaker: I had aquestion. I saw approximately $848,000. Where is this cost coming from6:58 PMWill it come out of a capital expenditure, some kind of grant or partnership or sit going to be removed from the buses. Any member of the board that is knowledgeable about this, I would very much ppreciate ananswer. Anyone?6:59 PM$840,000 isn't chump change. I understand that.Would you mind speaking to kyle about that. Andrew boone?We need a motion for the consent calendar and are there going to be any recusals?7:00 PMSecond.So we have a motion and second. Favor all in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed?Item passes. now to 7.2. 7. 2. Action item - augment the transit fund operating budget by $7,268,000 and$15,572,000 for fy 2020 and fy 2021, respectively for a total of $22,840,000 for two years, to implement the successor labor agreements that vta entered into with: amalgamated transit union (atu), local 265; american federation of state county and municipal employees (afscme), local 101; and transportation authority engineers and architects association (taea), local 21. Note: motion must be approved by at least 2/3 of the board (8 members). This item must be approved by two-thirds of the board. Deputy director of finance and budget will provide the report. .7:01 PMThank you, madam chair. deputy cfo for vta. With me is colleague franklin wong director of finance. He's going to walk us through this item. .Good evening, when the current budget was adopted for this year, there was still negotiations as part of the # collective bargaining unit. Because there was unknown agreements at that time, it does not include those agreements. The other union reached an agreement in august. These were subsequently approved in august. Those will be back to ask for the board's approval to amend the budget with net increases in labor cost. This is what this action item is about. For this and next fiscal year, we recommend the board toamend the operating budget by $7,268 and $15 million the potential possess increases could be found on page two of this memorandum. These include revenues. As you May recall, these labor agreements last for three years. The next increases will be discussed discussed in 22-23. This concludes my presentation. .7:03 PMWe finished our cafr at 22% and the reserves are getting muddled in my head. With the increases what do we expect next year?Thank you for the question.We expect in fiscal year 2021 with reserves about 11% which is exactly where we started fiscally on June 19th. We ended with 11% and July and that's for two years.7:04 PMOur target, hat is our target reserve level and how did we choose that level?For board policy, operating should be 15%. This was adopted by the board several years ago and typically, again, i'm speculating here. The best practice is about 16 1/2%. So in line with the best practices.Director ellenberg.Thank you, can you share that with the proposed percentages. With 11%, it's hard for me to absorb the additional $20 million in the budget. .7:05 PMCertainly. 11% in 2019, was $54. 8 million. The 11% the following year budget, fiscal year 19, the budget is $5 million. So 15%. If you subtract 7. 8.Thank you.Any other questions from board members, if not, eugene bradley wishes to speak on this item. Good evening, board members, eugene bradley. On the moneys for the bus operations, the moneys that are paid from reserves should not come from reserves but from highways to funding bus operations. Thank you.7:06 PMThank you very much. is there a motion to approve the budget augmentation?So moved..All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? thank you very much. That takes us to item 7. 3. Board of directors general manager to execute the operations and maintenance agreement with the bay area rapid transit district (bart) for theoperation and maintenance of the bart extension in santa clara county. Staff report is on your readingfolder or the table. Staff will provide a report.7:07 PM.Thank you, madam chair. the operations agreement is in three different sections. The first section is the key aspect to the agreement with the various topics covered under the o & m agreement as to whocontrols what and who is responsible for what areas. The second one is n the cost of revenue. In other words what are the cost of operating this extension and what are the revenues that are the sources for these costs. The 3rd section, third part of the presentation are the legal issues such as indemnidemocindemnificat and so forth and the last on the legal. Due without further ad do yo without further ado.7:08 PMGood evening. this is the process of the on going responsibilities and also provides greater details n the vta and bart relationships. In addition the o & m agreement supercedes the agreement signed in 2001. The agreements in construction and brt extension the agreements will remain in effect. For example, the phase 2 project will rely on the terms of the comprehensive agreement. In addition, the agreement describes the relationship among the parties as cooperative and working together as partners. Furthermore, the owner agreement makes clear the brt extension will be part of the bart system. This slide is to give you a general idea on how the ordinance ordinance will be implemented. That will include the cost and liability and administrative amendment. This is the division of the table you have seen in the past. Vta will continue to operate all facility and have owner of the transit center including landscaping, plaza, surface parking. And bart will have the responsibilities with the facilities, station buildings, sky ways, track equipment. In addition, vta's error of responsibilities for safety and securities measure o & m responsibilities. To show you an example. Blue is vta, yellow is bart, pink is milpitas. Here is the example. Blue is vta, yellow is bart and pink milpitas. Now we are down to the overview of bart's conduct of operations. The planning commigoals is bart's lines. The parties will coordination regarding development of schedule. Bart will treat special events like they will treat special events in the core system. For security, safety and policing, there will be four jurisdictions, vta's law enforcement agent, bart police, city of milpitas police and san jose police. This will be addressing cooperation and coordination of police response, safety and security between theparties. For public communications, each party will take the lead in providing information as well asresponding to complaints pertaining to areas of responsibilities. In addition if one party receives complaints of the party and controls. They are the party will pass along the complaints. The to ensure the arties work as partners, the primary point of contact for dispute resolution. For bart to perform this duty under this agreement, bart will be including these agreements for operating and will include contract rights under the o & m agreement. Furthermore, for areas of control, bart will control the real properties in operatingcorridor, station buildings and facilities. Vta will control the rest of the property in brt extension granted. If there is a termination of the o & m agreement, vta will quitclaim real property rights to vta. For core systems, bart will acquire and own all system improvements funded by vta for facilities. Now I will turn itto mike smith for an overview of this presentation. .7:14 PMTo be clear on this slide.O & m cost are the cost to run the service with the electricity and the capital cost are the heavier maintenance replacement and equipment and facilities. Vta is responsible for paying bart operating cost for operating extension and paying portion of the operational cost of the core system as well. Vta's cost is determined by calculating the difference between the two service plan scenarios, one especially thecurrently existing bart operating plan that does not have the xtension and then the service plan with the extension which then includes the cost of the extension plus some burden 3 that will be placed on the coresystem itself. Capital cost differ between the extension and the core in that vta is 10% responsible for thecost. The proportional share for the passenger miles and transfer to stations for cost of improvements in the core system. Regarding the capital improvement plan and the budget, bart and vta have agreed to work together in developments of both the long-term capital improvement plan and annual financial investment plan that will identify vta's cost to funding sources. The primary sources of revenue for vta will be the vta's 2008 measure b $0. 01 sales tax and the vta faire revenues will be collected by bart for vta'sriders. In the future there will be other sources of grants and captured revenues for future development and provide reconciliation for reconciled funding. And regarding reassessment. The agreement provides that after five years of operation, either party can require a reassessment process to occur. An assessment would be to adjust the cost section and adjust inequities or make other adjustments and bart and vta will be sharing arrangements. And reassessment assures there will be a process, did you tell not guarantee there will be a favorable outcome for either party. If no one agrees, there will be a process of dispute resolution to force an outcome. Regarding funds to this agreement, vta pledges the 2000 sales tax. As part of that, the trustee will be put in place used to administer the application of the tax as indicated in theagreement. On this iagram are the flow of funds and the web and what will happen with the trustee and onthe right side is a representation of vta's fare revenues and bart collects those revenues and they are applied. So two primary funding sources are the 2008 measure and the fare revenues. Vta is credited with 100% of fares collected of trips that begin or end in santa clara county except the trips ending at the oakland airport connector or the bart system. So those two instances bart will not revenue any fares onexpenses related to those systems. Systems.7:19 PMJust ne thing, this is the most difficult slide. Just to give an idea, 2008 measure b revenues we received$55 million each year, that is one source of revenue, and the fare revenues are projected to be about $27 million. Collectively about $82 million per year from measure b and the operating expenses are estimatedat this point to be roughly about $50 million. And a share of capital of 10. So combined peratingmaintenance and capital expenses are expected to be about $60 million and the revenue is roughly between $8 million. So there is that red card at the bottom. So anything on this example that I gave you of $23 million comes to vta for vta's use as specified in the 2008 measure b. There was a lot of discussion of that portion of that of who should control or not should somebody have a lien. I'm pleased to announce we reached n agreement yesterday stating all of those funds will come to vta lien free. That is a good outcome. I just wanted to highlight that. The trustee will receive and hold he tax money according to the agreements. Each month they will receive all measure b tax sales from the statute and will pay to thesubsidy fund. This happens monthly. One month to bart and any budget shortfall amount is an amount that will be in excess of revenues of the cost and an additional amount out of pocket. So to pay in the udgetshortfall amount determined for the year in the subsidy and shortfall moneys for bart to pay vta's obligations. Then the transfer to the reserve fund in the amount necessary and should vta not have a transfer to the reserve fund, bart will not draw on the reserves.7:22 PMThe purpose of the reserve fund is to address potential budgetary shortfalls, either excess cost, increased cost of a project or new project. Alternatively if there is a receive shortfall, vta's their revenues. The amount in the receive fund is $18. 5 million and we would do the monthly flow with the sales tax if there was a draw on the reserve.7:23 PMThis is one of the things like the safety blanket just in case there is an unplanned unbudgeted capital expenses that came on as an mergency for which we are expected to pay. They did not want the project tobe bogged down to go from vta to the process. So of the 18 $1/2 million in reserve fund, they can draw upto 5 without vta's prior consent since they are moving projects along, however we have a right to challenge and dispute that. Anything over $5 million, they need consent from vta to use this.So the bottom box, the residual fund, the final step at the end of the cycle. If all the boxes above, if the obligations have been met and any remaining sales tax und should be to the residual fund and transfer those moneys to vta to hold the 2008 measure b fund. The moneys transferred to vta for the lien to hold with the exception if the balance drops below the annual operating cost for that year, vta will be required to request concurrence of bart for additional expenditures for that one times coverage level.7:24 PMJust one qualifier on that. maybe a comment. Right now, the balance in 2008 measure b fund is $360 million. If the balance and what we collect prospectively, if we fall below one time operations and maintenance expenditures. For example, next year it's expected to be $16 million. Then any unbudgeted expenditures below that. Not approved by the board but anything that is not budgeted will be approved for the 25 or that can happen. Not to the concerned about that.7:25 PMIt goes without saying the moneys holding in the measure b reserve continue to be measure b moneys continuing to the purposes of measure b. That concludes my portion of the presentation. .So i'm going to speak first to the tda fanlights. There has been some question as to this lean. So I want to address right away that there is an existing lien on the tda funds and there has been since 2002 to securepayment on the cost for the existing vta fund to run in place. We have funding n place, that is also known as 2008 measure b. The parties have agreed that with the agreement, the tda funds will remain suspendedunless there is a voter appeal and a hallenge the to collect it or ultimately the expiration without the source of funds that will be a new tax. Moving on to the next slide, the dispute resolution slide, the dispute resolution provisions really follow the comprehensive agreement model almost exactly. What happens if there is a fair resolution, usually it wouldn't have to be formalized. The vta and bart program would sit down and talk it through to get things resolved. If a dispute couldn't be resolved by the program manager,they would kick it up to their executive managers of operations and have discussions at that point in an attempt to resolve any disputes. If that wouldn't work, of course we would go to the third level which would be the general managers and deal with those disputes between themselves. If they can't work it out, the parties would choose to a method of binding or non-binding for judicial arbitration. It's the intent to always avoid litigation. We are trying to work together as best we can but also litigation is extremelyexpensive. With that being said, nothing for close the parties from being able to work out any dispute they May have. : in terms of liabilities, each party is responsible for liabilities to the extent caused by theirnegligence or willful misconduct and procedures for handling claims and really in many respects. If damages would take place or an activity that creates damages would take place in one parties 3 area of control, that normally would be the responsibility of the party that controls the area. If there is a gray area, obviously the parties would work out and maybe address it jointly. Again cooperation is the key here.So if there would be any concern, the price would deal with that together. The o & m agreement also defines the insurance requirements met by each agency. Some of these have been met in otheragreements related to rail cars, but for the most part, these are addressed here in this agreement.Termination for convenience, the timing. None of the parties wish to walk away. We have recently orked out a new ay to handle some of the issues that May come up at the event of such termination. Weexpressed a concern of the amortized cost of the system assets. We entered, we essentially agreed that if there would be such a determination for convenience, the parties would have to get together and analyze these cost incurred by both parties, not just one issue, potentially ownership and major asset cost and as well as amortized value and core assets and the parties would try to work through how those cost would be addressed and those parties might have some concerns and some issues at that point and the parties would have a process for figuring out how to best separate their relationship. On a termination cause, it's again rather standing on the party that would have to give the arty the notice of default and express toterminate and in the event of a default, the non-defaulting party would be entitled to recover any damages or costs associated. One of the mode of determination is the course ima-- force major, eithe either party is responsible. Force majeure. This is the yellow cellphone shaped box. This is November and december. We are looking for action by our board tonight to the art board. They are going to look at it twice pursuant to heir procedures, and we will be taking action at this point to authorize our general managers if we choose to take this action, you will be authorizing the general managers to execute a complete agreement and we will have that agreement ready if you choose to authorize this for revenue service which will be sometime next month. This concludes my presentation. .7:32 PMThank you very much. are there directors questions? Mayor liccardo?Thank you. thank you for the really hard work. I know you guys put thousands of hours into thiscollectively. Thank you for this very -- I think it's a very positive conclusion to an incredibly difficult process. How many years?7:33 PMThree.It only seemed like two 1/2.I was going say like ten 1/2.I wasn't at the table. you were.Dog years..Can I go to the capital costs slide no. 12. As I recall, there is quite a bit of concern and consternation on that fourth bullet there about working together to the annual capital investment financial plan. To understand really clearly where we ended up a couple weeks ago when we last talked about this. At this point, bart is required to consult with us before they decide how we are going to spend our money in the capital expenses in the county?This is correct. this is one of the five areas that were unresolved at the last board meeting. Now they haveagreed that under extension, they will work with us and it will be a joint capital investment.7:34 PMOkay; and for the rest of the system, they just give us a bill. .Not quite. they have their own process of approving capital improvement program. They have their board to do that. What we have to do is create our share of that. That again was a hotly hotly debated tem for three years. Finally we agreed. It started with vta having to pay 20% for the capital plan for the extension and finally we agreed on 8% which is a combination of ridership and the county in the corp system. .7:35 PMI assume that 8% gets adjusted in the future if it changes ridership. We no less that every two years to assess ridership.That's correct. just on the security safety and policing, my understanding is you are negotiating right now,is that coming back to the board in dcember? >.The contract for ecurity stations outside of bart station will be coming to the board as soon as it is completed.I guess there is not a lot of time. There is the December meeting and hen we start servesice. .7:36 PMIt is highly likely that we'll be coming back to this board for an extension. .Okay. thank you..We saw this a few months ago and i'm not sure if it was at a standing committee. My question is to make sure whether anything is changed from last time from a financial level. Last time we had $360 million in the measure b fund and we are expecting about $25 million in fare box recovery and $20 million in per year but operating 50 something. So we are running an is you are is plus for a while and the question asked before was when phase 2 kicks in, we will now start running a deficit and drawing down that 360 and at some point we might run out and we might have a supplemental fare box charge. Omething likethat. If i'm remembering all of this correctly, with now as the agreement is done, has anything changed?7:37 PMYou have an excellent memory. that is correct. What has changed now is the revenues for emphasize 2.The res revenues have changed to likely 2030. Before we start to draw on these reserves. This is one. Andfurther the forecast which could change. Good news with phase 2, we will be collecting more fare revenues because our county passengers will be traveling greater distances. Obviously the expenditures will be higher as well. What we have estimated at that point based on that 26 or 27 revenue, somewhere in the2030s, 2034, 35, around that time, that's whether we would have pretty much depleted all the revenues from 2000 measure b. One thing I can tell you it's not going to be before 2035 because that was based onearlier. It's not going to be before 2035. It will be some date after that point we May have to have adiscussion.7:39 PMThank you..Director peralez?Thank you, chair. thank you for committee and in gauging -- engaging in these discussions with bart and having seen some of the challenges brought by both boards was really beneficial and I was not optimistic that we would hit this date even at the last meeting and knowing that we can get together for the specialmeeting if need be to approve this and fortunately, that did not happen. I will tell you, my questions were actually along with what the mayor stated because that was a major concern for me was how we were going participate in their capital investment plans and certainly that was an area of contention. And obviously, to your pint, mayor in regard to some of this, right, in their regard, we have agreed on a percentage, but at the same time, I think that our participation and they did talk about that in regards to the ability to participate in those conversations, we made it very clear we weren't looking for some veto power as to the decisions they were making but what I think is important is that we do participate and notjust focus on within our jurisdiction, but also participate in the conversation now of their entire capitalinvestment plan. And I will tell you, it will be a heck of a lot easier taking bart up to these meetings thanhow we've been having to commute up to oakland and vice versa. What i'm hoping for is nd I appreciate the compromise that we've come to, but i'm hoping that we are already beginning to think about when we will be meeting continuously whether it's a similar committee that we have or an opportunity for bothboards to participate in specifically this, the discussions around the capital investments and more importantly sort of regular get together's,. We are married and bringing own baggage here. We need to set that up in order to be successful here. I think that was a really big hurdle which I was not confident withregard to the timing. I'm very happy and appreciate the staff's work on that. The other issue was thetermination for convenience. I wanted to see if you can describe it a little bit further in regards to how we came to that conclusion as well as sort of the ensuring that we got what we were looking for in regards to what i'm reading including the unamortized cost of the system and the ability to not have to maybe lose out on some of these investments that we didn't get a benefit from. .7:42 PMSo what ultimately e proposed and agreed to by bart was essentially a process to dealing with this. Bart was concerned that we were very focused on our investment to the core estimate and there May be an other cost and how can we anticipate other cost in the future. We agreed o that both parties were going to sit down and review those costs and make a determination as to if there are any unreasonable losses fromeither party and how they are going to be addressed at the time for their determination for convenience.It's not everything we wanted but points to a way forward. Hopefully that day will never come, but if it does, we have the ability, both parties have the ability to sit down and the commitment to sit down and look at losses. We have significant investments that no longer have use of in the core system and that will be addressed through this process hopefully. .7:43 PMOne thing, what is said is 100% correct. Before it was silent. They did not want any knowledge of acknowledgment of any of our investments. So that was was a situation and now we have these areas.There is a process we have to go through and identify and what is equitable as to what we have to do. I believe this is a very good compromise we were able to make. .7:44 PMThank you and as you know this type of compromise is what I was comfortable with. I voiced that in a number of meetings. Thank you again to staff for all the hard work. I really appreciate it.Thank you, director blankley.Thank you, my questions were on slide 15. You started o allude to it but I want to clarify the numbers. The report doesn't have numbers for revenues. I apologize i'm not one that has been here for the last threeyears. So when I look at where it says fiscal impact in the report and in December of 2019, you are planning to come back with a budget amendment for this, okay and I see that you have listed out the expense side in there but there was no revenue listed numerically, but then you said in your report that something like $57 million is that one eighth sales tax is and $3 million is what comes from fares. What I would like to know is what is the board to expect to see from that budget amendment that you are comingforward with on the revenue side. From une 2020, I see $25 million of expenses. What is the revenue included in that request and in the following year what is the revenue from that side?7:45 PMCertainly that is an excellent question. It's only for expenditures that we need board approvals. So all of our budgets are expenditure base. To answer your question, that's a very valid question. Fare revenues are about $25 million per year, and with the 2008 measure b the difference is 81 and it's fully estimated to bearound 60. That's a very good point, when we come back to the board, beside seeking other authorizations for expenditures 3 we will be seeking more. That's what we'll do.7:46 PMThank you..Director jones?Thank you, chair. I want to focus on the dispute resolution. My question is, there is several potential known and unknown conflicts and disagreements in the o & m agreement. My question to you is why are weincluding some binding arbitration in the agreement?7:47 PMWell, it takes two to agree to that, and we did propose it for certain areas and bart as more comfortable remaining with what w we had under the agreement. It doesn't preclude us from this desire. We can go to litigation if we need to. We will try not to go there. Usually what a party might try is mediation to start with. If things aren't working out, you move yourself out of a binding arbitration and maybe you ove to a binding arbitration before you go to a more lengthy and costly type of arbitration. There is not universal appetite for binding arbitration. So it's not part of the agreement.7:48 PMYeah, with all the things that have gone on in the three years of putting this agreement together as well as all the other issues that we've had, I have seen this movie before and I know how it's going o end. I'm not comfortable with not having something like that in the agreement. I understand that bart is not willing to do it, I just know we are going to have these issues in the future. I'm not sure if my fellow directors have this concern. I see what's going to happen during this process. It's not going to be pretty if we don't have some mechanism to dissolve these disputes. I understand what you are saying, but there is a concern.7:49 PMThere is a method to resolve this mechanism and litigation is the last resort. As hard as this process was and give some props to bart, when things got rough in our terms of our relationship, it did go to the g level and it got resolved there. It can happen if you are butting heads right and left. Obviously we thought it was a good idea in some areas. It's one of those things where we couldn't get in the agreement.Thank you.Vice-chair chavez?Thank you, I want to start by thanking the staff. This was a horrendous process. There is no way that you can go through an easier experience. We'll include therapy next time. I also appreciate our bart partners because it took a lot of movement from both parties. What I want to understand was the issue around the lien. If you can go back to that slide. I think it's 16. So, the reason I wanted to ask if you could pull this up 3 because I wanted to better understand how you do the lien.7:51 PM> right now there is a tda agreement. The tda agreement specified that vta will dedicate an on goingsource of revenues by 2010. That did not happen. Although 2008 measure b passed the funds were not available until 2012. Just y the meer technicality --.I understand. unfortunately you and I had had this discussion but what i'm really trying o understand is in all practicality, how do you suspend the lien because with that, I don't understand the mechanism.7:52 PMIt's the spring lien. it gets suspended and it will spring back if one of those three things happen. .Does that mean there is risk for our ratings or risk for our being able to access resources because of this potential lien?No, from a practical standpoint, no.This doesn't show up if someone says, you have a lien on your property.Technically.7:53 PMWe have a lien right now, but once we sign the agreement, it gets suspended. So at that point it's lien free.If someone asked us if we had a lien, the answer would be no.Right. it would be no.I understand that this took a lot of blood, sweat and tears. I want to say to my colleagues just how incredibly historic this is because when we were working with bart in the early 2000s, we signed an agreement really in many respects because we were so excited to be part of the bart family. I would say itwas not ideal for us, and it really took a lot of work for our staff to remedy that and to rectify it for us to allow to have a meaningful partnership with bart. I don't want to miss that this feels like it's 20 years in the making, but maybe when we signed the first agreement with them, 2002?7:54 PMNovember, 2001.Oh my goodness. go ahead rub in how old I was because I was there. This is a pretty historic vote that we are all taking tonight and well done.Director?I want to say that this gave me heartburn from law school. I want to say that I remember hearing about this in closed session and bart wanted access or a lien on. I out that there was no way out of that. I'm quite impressed that you came up with a mutual agreement. Kudos and you can't underscore that enough.Thank you and let's vote.7:55 PMThank you. seeing no more comments from directors, we have comments from the public. ( calling names ) public speaker: this is not a negative comment. I really want to thank you for the tda agreement. That was my iggest concern with all of this and I made comments against it in the past. It's really been happening since I have been a lot. It means a lot. Thank you.7:56 PMThank you, monica..# public speaker: just oing into monica's comments. It great to see this tda agreement. And it's really important that this extension doesn't affect this funding and it's a great mechanism to get the new o & magreement. Thank you so much.Thank you, eugene. public speaker: I also echo the above of the previous wo speakers comments. I was also at that November 2001, vta workshop in the hilton which is now the casino. I found it interesting that vta would gamble light rail funding to fund omething that wouldn't be available for the next 10-15 years. I don't know which one was the bigger gamble what was going on with the casino with 3 what vta just agreed on. I have not seen any transit agency in this country where it would have a lien for collateral for a rail project. I'm glad to hear this lien will not happen and would seem to put this bus rail back to the 1970s. I have a document with what happened with sam transwith bart that put liens on its service and almost bankrupt the service. Especially when bart's ridership projections turned out to be higher than pojected. Not very fun. Thank you once again vta board and staff for at least seeing to it that transit service is not affected by bart oming down here. Thank you.7:58 PMThank you very much. I want to echo thanks to the staff and the communities made clear their concerns and I think that the board has indicated that to the staff and I particularly think we are all thrilled that this lien will not be impacting the existing transit services. So, we are taking our first steps here. I also want to thank the bart board members who are willing to participate in the discussions and president dufty for being interested in moving people at bart in terms to get us at an agreement that we can be celebrating when the service is actually beginning. With that, do we have an approval to operate and the maintenance of the bart extension. Any comments?7:59 PMAye.Any opposed? great job. [ applause ]May i? I want for give a shout out to my colleagues from bart. Holmes and rose. I appreciate their support in getting this done and I really want to thank them on the record. .8:00 PMThank you. now we are going to item 6. 2 which was removed from the consent calendar and that is review and approval of the cafr.Madam chair, I want o note that I have the partner from the cafr, from the public accounting firm from the audit. 'm not sure what the questions are so I thought it would be good to have him here. .8:01 PMIs it the request of the board to have a presentation or questions? Mr. Rennie?Thank you, the reason I asked to pull this one is that I feel that probably our most important or certainly one of our most important duties is our financial fiduciary duty and I was a little uncomfortable seeing our financial documents on consent. I already asked about some of them. I realize the finance administration committee reviewed this and I thought we should have some discussion and saw it as an opportunity to have more finance discussion. We had a couple more items tonight and I got in a lot of my questions. It would be interesting if we had a little bit more report from the finance administrations committee and what they recommend and you just told me about them accepting of it but did it accept it barely or what went on with that.8:02 PMI always mention the policy needs to go to a full board in a better presentation. So I would like to see a brief presentation and I had a few questions. .Madam chair, we are prepared to provide a presentation. It's not very long. So --.Thank you for that. we did make a presentation to the audit board. Why don't I let him speak first. They did an audit on three separate legal entities, if you will. One with the vta, the second one was the vta atu pension trust and the last post employment benefits trust. So ahmad, can you speak to that and as well as the board pronouncement that is going to impact vta in the next few years and I will speak to the others.8:03 PMI think you can start talking. Talking.8:04 PMThank you. my name is an ahmad. I'm with the auditor. We test the financial account balances. The confirmation, we confirm your investments, sales tax, all kinds of an literal procedures and we present an opinion on these presentations. Then we take a look at some of the processes that you have with respect to controls and the manner that you account for these numbers and how you process your receipts anddisbursements and payroll and our responsibility for initiating a fair opinion. It is a clean opinion and we had no adjustments to the financial statements and no comments with respect to the internal controls.Alongside with this, there is a couple other reports # that we issue to the unemployment benefit plan thatyou are providing retirement benefits and the other transit plan that also relies vta to provide pensions to retirees. This is in accordance with an accounting standard for the standard setting body that tells vta how they are supposed to present these financial statements and we issue an opinion as to whether vtacomplied with those accounting requirements. With that, this is what we did here. We have a couple ofgatsbies that revamp the financial presentation with respect to pension and with respect to the retiree health benefits. I'm sure that with other cities that you are involved with, you have seen the numbers displayed. Those were rather significant changes to your financial statements. We do have a couple that are upcoming one with respect to loui leases that you have to present in your financial statements and the other one with respect to agency funds. Those funds will have to be moved from one area to the other, but basically it's the same pot. It's not going to impact you financialingly. Financially financially. Only the leases. .8:07 PMThere was another one?Yes. right. Enterprise fund which is vta can capitalize the cost of inter-related to construction, incurred on debt issues for the construction purposes which is the bart extension. It is supposed to cease at the time the project was completed. It's owed at the time the gatsby is initiated. Once the roject has completed and placed in service or becomes effective which is going to be in a few months, you cannot capitalize it as part of the standards boards that issues those standards and want to stop capitalizing that interest and run it through the income statement.8:08 PMIf I may, on the lease accounting which ahmad mentioned that they are differently. You can go through an analysis to ifferent between capital leases and operating leases. If it's determined to be a capital lease as a standard, which goes through a different analysis depending on the end of lease options and how much you pay. If you capitalize it you have to book it on the balance sheet as if you borrowed it or owed themoney or if t's an operating lease, it should be a public disclosure. That was never there, now they are trying to catch up with what the private sector has done all along with these leases. That's one. The second thing on the interest whether it's capitalize or expense, it's not going to have a material impact. As you look at the similar -- simple lnguage. For instance, a project, and the money to fund a project and the construction period is $100 million, id could be capitalized. In other words the project cost would be $2. 1 million. Now, when you start expensing it out, you cannot include it to include the basis for the asset which is $2 million. It's not much of a difference to us because the straight line depreciation, if you don't pay taxes, it's not going to affect us. But that's the change that is being made. On a very positive note, I wantto say that on the atu pension plan, the funded ratio for 3. 9% last year, it's up to 3. 75% as of last year which is a very good outcome. Likewise calpers has gone up frto 73. And the funding ratio from 126% to 128% which is over funded which is good. With that, I will be happy to answer any questions you Mayhave. .8:11 PMDirector mcallister?I wasn't questioning the auditing process but more of the document. If there was an executive summary to say, these are things for how to read it or highlights in it. That's what I was looking for. I'm sure you guys did a great job in the audit. I do have a couple questions. I would take them off line and I will just ask them quickly. On page 315, there is a chart there that says santa clara transit authority debit capacity and in 2019 there was $27 million, and on the next page there is a table 15, 237, at a coverage of 3. 3. I'm trying to understand, what coverage means?8:12 PMI'm sorry?What does coverage mean?Debt service coverage ratio. for example, if it's $30 million and available revenues are 90, that means you have three imes coverage. .So one has about the same revenue but one is 3. 3.One is 2017 tax and the other one is 2000 measure a and one is a bond and gives us a specified source of revenues. Any bond issued with the 2017 tax if you will that has a coverage of 9. 7 and measure a, that has a coverage of 3. 3. Those are two separate debts. Correct, the debt is different, the pledge is different.Okay because I saw two amounts. One other question. On the measure a funds t transfer of funds of $149million. If we have measure a funds on 215, table 15, $237 million, is there any correlation between what's on table 15 to the transfer of funds from capital from measure a?8:13 PMNo, it's a change in accounting. Ahmad, you can speak to that.You are referring to page 250?Yes..It's basically from measure a to construct the bart extension. That is the activity that occurred in fiscal year 2019.So the difference was transferred and came in would be the interest? >.There is a total debt service of $71,000.Those are very different.8:14 PMOkay, I will take that off line. Thank you.Okay, are there any other questions? Director rennie?I have one lingering general finance question. I was exploring the idea of should we be trying to fund more of our under utilized bus routes. It was mentioned to me that our fare box recovery amount actually affects some of our revenue from the state and that was a surprise to me. Could you elaborate a little bit more.How much is that and how much is the affect. Is it a straight multiplication or steps?8:15 PMT this time no. but maybe in the funds in the future. We'll give you more details on that. At the present time, fare box revenue ratio does not affect any ratio we are giving. But with several states, that would be in effect. .The worse # -- your fare box recovery, if you are in a hole, they dig deeper. .It's like borrowing an amount of money.Since you are talking about unfunded liabilities, I couldn't help but ask, the funding ratios are wonderfully high in opeb. I know it cost money for the year that we are 100% funded. Sit lawful to be able to shiftdollars from opeb to the funding account?8:16 PMWell, it's in an irrevocable trust. It's in section 115. In theory, you have to break the trust.Okay.That's the only way you can do it and the board can break the trust.I get it. it's as long as it's not for other employees. .8:17 PMOkay.Lebron, do you want to speak to that? Okay, with that, all in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? thank you very much. That takes us -- thank you very much for the report and all theexplanations. This brings us to item 8. The first item is 8. 1. Or general manager report. Nuria.Thank you very much and good evening to all of you. In addition to our transit service to providing service to all of santa clara county, we are also the management agency. With that title comes the responsibility for maintaining the county's management program in accordance with the government code. Why o I mention this is because we have a series of highway and interchange project that are on our list of activities in our capital program and one such project i'm going to mention now. In January we broke ground for the interchange reconstruction at the matilda interchange off the 101. I'm pleased to report that nine months later all three ramps are complete for the project that tie to the u. S. 97 and the 101,and that was known as the matilda monster project. That interchange was something for the movies. That is completed. There is a bicycle and pedestrian work that's on going and the entire project should be fully completed and open by serum summer of 2020. The ext project is sr 237. I believe in the early part of the 2000s. We had a segment that were collecting tolls. We came back to the board with request to extend.There was a pilot. We piloted this long enough and now we need to extend it and I am pleased to report that after 3 20 months that phase 2 of 237 will be complete and open to commuters on November 15th.We are planning an event in december. Now, here is the caveat. If you are going to use those lanes, you need to have a fast track transponder. So for those of you who have been delaying the purchase of that transponder, it's about a good time to think about it considering that the rest of 101 from santa clara county all the way to san francisco via san mateo will be also part of this program. The transponders youcan get that through 511. Org or through costco. These are two important projects that we have been responsible for and they have come to fruition. Now, on the safety side, this was another pilot suggested tothe board about a year 1/2 ago. To do the pilot on the transit mall to install a safety railing. If you are familiar with downtown between 1 and second street between santa clara to san carlos, it's very difficult to discern when you are on the sidewalk and/or when you are on the track. That problem has caused us anumber of near misses with individuals who have used the tracks as sidewalk for their scooters, to walk, to ride their bicycles, and with vehicles that have turned into the wrong lane which what they believe was thelane was really the track way. With this safety railing, what we are hoping is to deter any bad behavior, the installation started n the first and completed on the second of november. It is up and there are the finishing touches, but you get he picture if you are near san fernando and san carlos. We will be back to the board with our findings and recommendations. Hopefully everybody will obey with this and actually stand behind the railing and allow the trains to go by. So that's what has happened there. In addition to that, we've had a number of projects as part of our state of good repair on the rail we have. If you are a light rail customer, you have noticed that there are some segments where we have had to construct this major track bed or wiring and/or ou have experience what we call slow zones. That work is underway. This is what is happening out there, and over the next year or so, we will be showing additional work as we continue with our efforts to bring our rail system which is several decades old into a state of good repair.Now, to some not infrastructure related news, we have been hosting a series and thank you so much for your support board of directors, we have been hosting a series of appreciation events for our employees at each of the yards. We started out at the north yard in mountain view followed by our shiboya yard and north san jose and tomorrow we will have the last of the recognition events of our employees t our riveroaks headquarters. I want to thank those employees who were able to join us in the middle of the day. We have one more chance that is tomorrow for you to be there for our employees which seems like a very long year. With that, I would like to give # it to our safety and security staff. I'm going to have larry sharewithyou. We have been keeping them in the folder but I think we have great news.8:24 PMAs part of the federal inspectors statistics as of september. We had 140 criminal incident reports in the system and 84 arrest. Additionally we cited nd released 17 subjects for misdemeanor crimes. Violent crime remains down this year.There was a spike in enforcement due to the start with the season of the 4ers and sell out crowds. We also ran multiple fare sweeps in october. Those are joint sweeps between sheriff's office transit atrol and vta expecters inspector inspectors. I would like to highlight this which happened in august. August 28th, deputies katie ole varies saw black smoke and the school structure was in flames and deputies began evacuating the kids from the school and got medical services for one studen struggling from mokeinhalation. They were able to break through the chain link fence to allow students to escape. There were no additional injuries. That concludes my report. .8:26 PMMayor liccardo.Thank you, just a quick question.With all the changes, when you are finding somebody who was perhaps high on meth and in possession of meth which was a felony in years past and now a misdemeanor, are you just giving them a citation or are you make an arrest?8:27 PMSometimes we do. sometimes we make an arrest if there are other factors related to that.Other criminal conduct.Also if they are under the influence if they are unsafe. There is occasions on misdemeanor drugs that we issue citations. .Right. let's say it's a person that you are concerned with because they are acting seemingly violentlymaybe pounding against the light railcar or something like that, you take them and book them. Now, did they just, I assume they get out right away, right? There is no way to hold anyone in that situation.Correct. a lot of times.They just walk out.8:28 PMThey keep them n there for a minimum number of hours and hopefully at that point they have the opportunity to sober up a little bit.Thank you, appreciate it.Okay, any others? director mcallister?Would it be helpful to have a two year comparative? So we can see a trend?I certainly can do that if you want it at the general board or do a multi-comparison.That would be helpful for me if it came as part of the board so I can see where we are going with that.We can certainly do that. we have historically done that and the question was really how does it compare to last month. Definitely, yes, if we can bring that back to this board.I will say on that note before, i'm sorry, the three comparison of the uniform crime reporting data which is part one which is the homicide robbery and aggravated battery especially for robbery is a three year decline and aggravated battery three year decline. .8:29 PMOkay, if there are no other questions, thank you. The next item in my report is item 8. 1a, as you all recall, we adopted the new transit service plan known as next network. It's this next generation. We are going to be launching the new transit service plan on December 28th. And I have asked jay tyree, transportation planning manager to give the board an overview of what to expect that's going to take place on December 28th because so much is happening very quickly as we are planning this and we have to also work with the public as we have done some outreach but we have to do more extensive outreach to start to communicate what this transit plan is and to discuss more enhancements. .8:30 PMThank you, I will talk about some of the major activities going on. There are a lot of activities that we have been engaged in since back in ay of this year since the board adopted and working up to December 28th.One of the first things we are doing and what is most important is scheduling all the service is every schedule bus trip and every piece of work for every operator we have has to be scheduled out. We just now are finishing up the final touches. These schedules include things like lay over, recovery time, it's a complicated process. We are putting the finishing touches on those, that's great progress that we've made.We are also developing a new system map and hand schedules. These are the printed schedules used to navigate our system. We are putting he finishing touches on this now and we'll have those available for riders and distributing those out to our riders very shortly. This is the most visible sign of progress that is happening now is we are changing the bus stops which are all bus stops throughout the county. Everyonehad to be changed digitally and sent to the manufacture and get delivered to us and they get checked, sorted into packages and sent out to our bus stop team and they put them up. If it requires a differentservice than today, we need to put a cover on the stop. And the night before we'll be removing some of those temporary covers. We see staff sorting. What you don't see is hundreds and hundreds of bus stops in the backgrounds. This is map showing the complexit complexity of all the bus stops and indicating the stages. The blue ones are the final, those are the ones installed. You will see as you drive out today to those areas or take the bus out, you will see the signs on the blue dots. A lot to do. We are about half way through of the installation process of the bus stop signs. Next thing we are working on is a dedicated work project that will launch next month to help riders navigate from their service so they can put in their trip and where they are going to. We are putting final touches on this and this will launch next month. We are kicking off a marketing campaign with radio ads and flyers. It's kind of a multifaceted marketing campaign to help riders to understand that service is coming and to get folks that have tried vta and to help them understand what the benefits of the new service are. There is things like radio spots, newspaper inserts, social media ads and putting ads on the benches and bus stops and trains and buses and tv advertisements and clipper cards. This is quite a lot on the 3 marketing cmpaign. You will start seeing things out very shortly. This is exciting, we are lso recruiting a team of professionals and multilingual we are calling the street team that will be out at transit centers and important locations like downtown and places like the bart station where they are helping with vta in uniform. Several dozen people per day.These people will be outs before the new service happens. In mid-december, we have the street team deploy and until late January to make sure that we are out there having a touch point for the riders and getting their direct feedback and helping them navigate the new system. We are very excited about them.We have a digital advertisement to show you. An advertisement to help get people into the system. I have a quick clip here.8:36 PM( video)&j&jOkay.You can see we are casting a wide net and hoping everyone tries vta. My final slide is to give you a sense of what's ahead following the new service plan. Monthly I will be coming back to the committees and the board giving a discussion of performance from our system. We'll be looking at what's working well and what's not as we are discussing as we are creating the service plan for next year. In april, the express bus the network as it is today will remain as it is today unchanged # all the way until April and that will be coming here under adoption for the program. No changes until April of next year on the express network.In april, june, october, those are the three sign ups in 2020 where we'll be making service adjustments to respond to what is working and we'll respond to the next service plan and every year we'll be starting theservice plan and in the summer starting exercises to start to develop draft ideas for the 2021 service plan for the following february. That concludes my report.8:37 PMThank you very much. are there any questions for jay? Hearing none, thank you very much for your support. We truly appreciate that. The next item on my report is one that I believe will begin the conversation around some of the issues that we've heard from our ustomers at the last two meetings and some of our representatives of transit sers who have written to us regarding the challenges that some areexperiencing with the lack of information or the late information as to the availability of buses, and whathappens when a bus does not pull out of the yard because of the lack of an operator, and so what I have done is asked our communications, marketing, together with our service and hr and our operations to give a full presentation on the full process with where we are with with recruiting, how we are notifying nd our training programs. With that, I will turn it over to brandy.8:39 PMGood evening, board members. I will go over the challenges that we are seeing especially when it comes to over $1. 5 million. This is not just wear and tear on our vehicles but takes a toll on our employees. Many are complaining about buses not showing up on time and the conclusion was drawn that this is due to an operational shortage. There are different aspect that contribute to a bus not showing up on time. We willcover what will keep vta transit healthy and when we are unfortunately getting off to a bad start. I want to set a bit of context here that the shortage is not just happening here but in the bay area and happening across the country. Labors shortage and trying to expand service with fewer federal state dollars hasunpredictable delays and under performing services. Because of the labor shortage, buses have been struggling in denver, miami, omaha, to name a few, in san francisco causing delays during commute times.Fortunately our situation is not that dire. But we have been looking into this. We are looking at the solutions that we are focused on to fill the gaps. .8:41 PMGood evening, madam chair and board. Austin jenkins, interim chief operations officer. This is my second go round here at vta. I came here in 1974 as a bus driver and was going to stay for six months and I ended up making this a career and stayed until 2004 and then moved to seattle and worked on their light rail system and then did work as a consultant. I came back because I saw the need and I love vta and I thought there is an opportunity to help get over the slump and move on. I'm really excited about thesolutions that are coming to this difficult problem. This is not acceptable for a bus not to be there when people are standin standing there waiting for them. We know we can do better and we are looking for solutions and working on solutions.8:42 PMWork in a transit environment is pretty much the same regardless of where you go. If you are in a paris orguadalajara guadalajara. The work is done between the agreement and the transit district and the workforce. That's the way it is here. The workers earn their time off or there is an agreement thatidentifies what is scheduled time off. Vacations, floating holidays are classic examples. There is also the problem of course of unscheduled absences. These are normal. People are getting sick and your child is sick. It doesn't matter to the person on the street, if your bus isn't there, how do we deal with it. We have an extra board. There is a certain percentage of bus drivers, rain operators, forces that don't have regularassignments. Their assignments are assigned the day before. They are the people who fill the slots that occur when somebody doesn't show up for work. We account or the right number should allow us to do that everyday and we are working very hard. It's not an exact science. We are striving to do it. I think right sizing the service is the first solution and we are doing that with a service plan. I'm optimistic there and identifying the correct number of operators for the number of hours we promise to our customers is another key piece. We believe we have identified it and we are working on it and examining it. This is the heart of what we do and what vta is concerned about and offering services to people in the street. We have other elements. I think if a bus is there at 6:00 a. M. , that means that bus pulled out of the yard at 5:20 a. M. That means the operator got out of bed at 3:00 a. M. . If they live in tracy they got out of bed at 2:30 a. M. . If you came off the street, that is a shock to your system because that is different in a job that you would encounter there. So we see people in the industry that can't handle it. They leave. We have something unique with the workforce investment. I know it is. I have not seen it in the country. There is nothing like it in the united states and it's in the cutting age. The mentor workforce, veteran operatorsattached to new employees that help them through that hump as they understand what they have gotten themselves into as they are coming into this work it's going to be key and the team is already showing improvements. That's a big positive that is going to help us. We have identified in the contract that was ecently signed incentives to get people to come to work. If you move through the salary of your progression and wages faster if you come to work everyday. That's a pretty good thing. There is an incentive to be here. The other thing is there are people that frankly abuse the system. It's a complexattendance policy and frankly in my opinion we need to take another look at it. I have spoken to the union bit. It's a partnership with the union. It eeds to be addressed. It was last addressed in 2009. Vta will be going forward talking about it in the future to making sure it's really to administe administer it. I think the last piece that is most important is making sure we have enough people. We are losing people on a regularbasis. People are getting older and people promote and leave. How do we fill the vacancies. I'm going to leave that to marie jones who is the human resources manager. .8:46 PMHi, I will be walking you through the recruitment operations and training and operator positions and operator vacancies. We currently have 923 budgeted positions for bus operators. In order to fill those operator positions, we have four operator training recruitments each year. While some organizations havetrouble filling their positions, have rouble reconstitutional righting for these positions, we do not. We typically have about 400 candidates for each of our recruitments and our recruitments last one week-longand from those recruitments, we transfer those candidates to our initial screening and some will not choose o go through the process and some will not go through the interview process and some will not get through our medical or fingerprint check. And the end result will be the final candidates that we have on our eligible candidates on our operator training. The operator training last nine weeks long. The operator f vacancy rates is the next thing I want to talk about. It tends to fluctuate, we have resignations, transfers, people who retire. This is able to transfer and promote in accordance with their collective bargaining agreement. There are 45 vacancies for bus operator and we currently have 43 bus operator trainees who are preparing to take those positions. We have a graduation tomorrow. 20 of those trainees will graduate tomorrow and the others will graduate in december. So this will alleviate some of the problems. .8:49 PMWith that, you've heard both from marie and austin. Some of the solutions that we are looking at, but regardless we are still looking at being better and communicating better with our customers when they areout at 5:00 a. M. And the bus doesn't show up or when it shows up late. My colleague, service districtmanager will now share with you what our communication tools are and our practice and what we currently do and looking to do in the future to improve.I am also a multilingual street team member of this transit service. We do a few or all of these things. Anyinteraction we have with our customers who say that our bus didn't come, we tell them to scribe and sign up and we send them notifications. What we are doing to respond in this situation is we are looking attomorrow's potential impact. I have the sheet. My colleague will get in at 5:30 a. M. And we start to put out these notifications and let the phones light up. When we get to the rainy season, we make big strides where our realtim realtime gfs will send e-mail alerts and they will be able to see if their trip is canceledrealtime. In that slution, the last update I had about an hour ago as we were sitting here will be next week if not be able to implement that. I'm going to run the last year's report for comments to see if this is working and how we can help keep you moving. .8:51 PMThat's where we are trying to go is the realtime solutions so they have it in their hand and the app which is a real way to communicate with the people. If you don't have the transit app, please download it now. So we are done with ur information and ready to take your question. .I have a question. I was out for one of my walk and I was in the rose garden area and I passed a bus stop and said next bus coming t a certain time which surprised me because I didn't know we had that. My question is that accurate? Can we do more of those because some of the stories that e heard I sat at the bus stop for an hour and the bus never came, if you have these signs, an app is a good idea and if you have these signs and they are accurate and saying the bus is coming for the next two hours, you might decide not to wait for two hours. .8:52 PMThat's absolutely what we are trying to do but it's xpensive to put that type of infrastructure on the bus stops as we have 4,000 of them. But our newer bus stops have the led information. We are movingtowards that. We do know that people have their mobile phone with them most of the times, so that's realtime feed they can have in their pocket at any moment.8:53 PMIt's cheaper to go the mobile app than to try to put up all of those signs. .It's a power issue.Realtime notification, that's awesome. I'm wondering about the tools where you are talking about the e-mail and app or twitter, how many customers are signed up for that?We have a great following with our transit app. The nice thing about the transit app and the platform that we are using, there are customer e-mail notifications. That's how some people prefer to see thisinformation. That is how you are looking at the numbers and more people are going towards the app.8:54 PMThat's the way to try to get people who have devices with them is maybe there needs to be some kind of marketing message push about getting that to try to help with ecause I can see a gap where people don't have that where they are not thinking to use or look what is happening from the bus service. We are trying o use that as a mechanism. .I appreciate that because we are getting that out with our service and not just educating people on the entrtransit service and how to fish for their information. .Thank you..Director mcallister.I have a question about the overtime. I thought there was something in the contract about addressing ab# absenteeism and overtime.8:55 PMJust for accuracy, the collective bargaining agreement that we reached with the transit union has a provision for the progression. As you come in as a new operator, that progression which was a certain number of months, I can't remember, I think it was 48 months and we reduced that based on the attendance of the individual. So that is if they have perfect attendance and there are certain other requisites that would accelerate that progression instead of having to wait the 48 months is less. As to theovertime.I remember talking about there was a lot of overtime and why we had a 12% overtime and there were ways that people were scheduling their hours. Do you remember now?8:56 PMI think, i'm going to be real frank here, there is not a transit district in the country that doesn't depend on overtime. That's the way it is. That is just if you go to the east coast and one of the fights we had years ago I was at the table in philadelphia where we had train bus operators. They step off the bus after eight hours and step back on and pull another eight hours. They didn't want to change the rules about time off between shifts. We have an element of overtime and it's something we are dealing with. Getting our staffing to the right levels will get us to manage all of it and managing an attendance program. I hopethat's helpful. .Yes, and there is always a lot more information we can provide. We wanted to give you an overview of all the basic elements, the policies that are in place. The activities that were taken to connect better with thecustomers and then what we are doing in house to ensure that we continue hrough whether it's attrition, or any other issues that are affecting our ability to have a full bench of operators that were addressingthose very quickly. If ou all have any further questions oh for this team? Mr. Liccardo?8:57 PMI know this is going to sound real simplistic, but do we ask our drivers why they are absent?Yes, they have to provide a reason, provide proof. There are regulations and rules about what and why.8:58 PMI'm fully cognizant of the fact that you are not a mind reader and can't possibly know. But do we learn anything from that data. Is there a consistent?Yes, within the departments of vta, they are doing a very good job of tracking data and looking at trends.I'm sorry, I should have asked differently. By the actual data that they are telling you why it is they are not showing up? Is there anything we can say about what we are learning about why people say they are not coming?I think there is very specific rules that we need to follow.There are a million reasons.8:59 PMYou don't have to tell me anyone particular individual. If 40% of them said, my car broke down, 'm just trying to figure out if there is anything we can glean from what people re telling us. .Because there are 900 in this community that we are addressing. If we are going to boil it down to trends, then maybe the habitual ones, not so much looking at the overall community. You know, as austin indicated before, we all et sick time. Some of us use it and some of us don't and some people abuse it. But there are caps. I shouldn't say caps, but there is a certain number days of that you can be off sick before you have to produce a doctors certificate or confirmation. .Ou also have federal and state laws that play into this. .So we have the femla which is unfortunately abused. The auditing general is working on this report. We'll have more detail. Right now we are speculating.I don't want to be in a place of managing, but there ought to be a way to tell why people aren't showing up.Not everybody breaks their back and comes into work. .If there are no other questions, I would like to thank the team. I hope this was helpful and we'll don't provide updates as they become available. The next item on the agenda is the government affairs report.In the interest of time. That report is in your reading folder and binderNext we have an update on the silicon valley rapid transit program with our director dennis radcliff and program manager jorge martinez.Thank you. tonight we'll be giving an update on phase 1 and 2. We met with our ad hoc program where we discussed the operations agreement which you heard about earlier tonight and also the status of phase 1.In that discussion, staff communicated that they were working towards December 28th revenue service date. And that key milestone towards achieving that would be initiating perevenue operations on October 28th. At the same time staff expressed the word of caution with regard to the work ahead in so far as theprerevenue operations was constrained on a regular basis while additional testing was going on simultaneously. With that, jorge will give you more detail on that.As we have been reporting in prior sessions we have been striving to get to this prerevenue operations of bart and this did begin October 28th and in restricted mode because they started late. I will talk riefly about why they weren't able to start October 1st as originally scheduled. They are compressing their schedule and at the same time we've got on going completions in phase 2 work and also because we haven't finished completion f phase 2 work where there is some on going phase 3 verification on their part.We are establishing this finance line and they are working on the 24/7 schedule that we have. With bart and prerevenue condition, that takes the better part of the day shift and because they are in restrictedconditions, they are taking some of the swing shift to complete some of that work. That is restricted to working the remaining phase 3 bart testing during the graveyard shift and that's leaving us and the contractor address some of the concerns and observations between the hours and midnight to work. It's becoming very challenging to work. Where the strike teams continue to be ramped up. We have tremendous cooperation from the contractors and our own technical staff. We have a great working relationship with the bart teams and working collaboratively in the field. And you know, the work isprogressing. The detection system which is always a great concern is impacting the operations has not been resolved. We are in the final stages of testing that and bart will come at another time theconfirmation testing and everything is going to be complete and ready to install by the end of the year.Right now there is a few items of documentation. There are a few items to be buttoned up and escalators and a stop issue that is non-conform active and that has a resolution in play which will be completedbefore the end of the year. We don't expect that to impact anybody. It's just an accumulation with all of these things and trying to work with bart for them to do their thing and us doing our thing. We are in parallel working on all the documentation requirements for all of this work that is comprised of the systemcertification application. We provide training for the operators for the maintainers. There is a required number of people that bart needs to have trained up to be able to operate and they have to be certified aspart of the certification process as they achieve those numbers. We are double shifting some training and roviding contractors to provide that right number that's intimately associated with the contractor to provide us with the training materials which are fo -- for the operations and training materials. We are closing theprior contract for the main line. We have thousands and thousands of documents to pull together that comprises the system's certification process and we have teams working on that. We don't see any extreme obstacles in the path to doing that. The only challenge is working in the field to address theconcern, a lot of it will bind in the application and lying to to comply with the process and trying to come up with the December 5th deadline for the system certification application. In parallel, we are worting withthe vta organization as you saw in the previous presentations that folks getting ready with the integration with the bart system and the county transportation grid is occurring. .We'll mover on to phase 2. I want to point out at the last board meeting we received staff received feedback from board of directors with regard to station access in the subway area of bart phase 2. We have organized and held our first of a series of workshops with the city of san jose management, seniormanagement and staff to examine the range of considerations and the functioning and configuration and access to the station. I think we head very good kickoff meeting and the city of san jose came up ith abetter understanding of what each are trying to accomplish and with additional sessions, we should have something to bring back to the board that enlightens what we have concluded. As we are doing that, ourgeneral engineering consultant is working towards the product and most of the board members have received a transient oriented development playbook with the staff and city of santa clara and being finalized. Our current schedule for hase 2 is waiting for the full funding grant agreement and looking forachieving that. The design is a key element f getting there. We are going to be making a formal submittal to fta in February as we rocess our design submittal. And we have been coordinating with not only region nine but also fta headquarters. They have committed to a joint team of headquarters to region nine to help us through this process. We think we might be able to have our kickoff meeting next week. That kickoff meeting will be a road map for fta and vta to define what our next steps will be and this will be the basisfor that. This schedule is targeting and receiving a full grant agreement for late 2020. There are some agreements that May bring that in within the next several months and we'll discuss that with vta at ourkickoff meeting next week. Generally speaking preconstruction in 2021 and the true project construction begins as we open to 2022. That concludes my presentation. We'll be happy to answer any questions you might have.Mayor liccardo?'m sorry to be utting in. when do we have to land the plane as to when that private component is?That's a good question. the expedited project delivery pilot program from fta program requires a number of things. One is to demonstrate a public private partnership involvement so the private sector is engagedto essentially the funding or in the infrastructure creation of the project. Our approach is multi-facet. There are several opportunities for that. I won't go through them all, but generally each location has an opportunity for joint development. As you are aware in getting a commitment in that channel if you will will take some time, but again, fta is not kind defined in what they are looking for in their application and ourcoordination will inform that. We have other opportunities for other public private partnerships that aren't so lengthy that will be explored in the next couple months and by february, we'll have an agreement of some kind to define the rudements of the program. The other elements will follow and enhance our full funding spectrum.And that's an excellent question because of course given that that is one of the prerequisites, we wanted to be sure that with the expedited notion of submitting this application in February that e can address a p 3, but not one that requires us to end into some longstanding agreement with the developer who is uncertain as to what to develop. We are looking for multiple opportunities for p 3 to capture and joint development as well. The federal government did ask us however to share our early thinking around what some of these areas were. They wanted to know that way before we submit the application so they wouldknow where it is in line with their thinking. .That is helpful. do we need and mou with the landowner. .I'm looking at dennis..I want to know if we maybe involved and to push.Without making commitments i'm unable to make tonight. Through the commitments, we'll find out what the nature of such arrangements would need to be made and to express to express certainty. Certainly they are going to express how with vta the full funding granting is going to be. There is going to be somebilateral conditions. But I do believe that by the time we make our submittal we'll have a sufficient interest to make a commitment that fta will evaluate an application as complete.The good thing about this expedited project of this delivery pilot program where there is a lot more flexibility. These are the rules that you have to follow and when you have checked all the boxes come talkto us. We are in constant communication. This program is being developed with our project and that'swhere they are going to be refining some of the opportunities. Whether it's an unclad agreement by February our mou, these are the things we are thinking, we will know before we submit. .Thank you..How are you staying on track?The most important items are on track and for control and we have a plan for implementing. Those are being tracked constantly if you will and there are other items that are of concern. The nature of it is that the operating division is beginning to get their hands-on and exercise the completed works. You have questions and concerns and observations that they register into a log. It is incumbent then upon that the fema team whether it's revenue to handle later or clarifying this is how you do that. There are things to be corrected and we have strike teams that are taking care of those things there from is weekly review of all of those things. The biggest challenge is new stuff is always coming in at the same time because we have all of these activities overlapping as being prerevenue operations and testing at the same time. So, it's still a little bit of a challenge because of the locust to resolve is still elastic. In the next week or so, we shouldbe able to get our hands around what is left to be done and we have a sense of now we can diminish the whole stack. Right now it's still elastic and we can opine.Thank you.Any other questions, if there are no other questions, thank you, dennis and jorge. Madam chair, that concludes my report.There are people wishing to make comments on your report.Eugene?Public speaker: I want to thank the board and staff for taking about 15 minutes to discuss the notification and process when a 3 bus no shows. First off, kansas city metro is experiencing the same thing and they notify people that the drivers May not show up. That's what i'm concerned that vta has not published yet.Even though there is one notice off twitter. People that aren't n twitter that are not on line don't see what's going on. That's not fair to them. Let's get some sort or even a press conference out that let people know that there is a driver shortage and this is what we are doing to resolve things and this is what to expect.I'm also looking to what bus strikes and let's notify them on what's going o.Anything we can do to ask government affairs. Feinstein is on the committee appropriations dealing withconstruction and she's got amazing powers with the help we've gotten with bart. Let's see if we can dosomething. As a note and other employees who live in the central valley. We really need to fix it. There is a mention here about s. B. 1, I would hope that vta my consider a report for jim bell to return the integrity for s. B. 1 to reject on the report 3 for prop 6 that talks about how newsom wants to talk about this. Santa clara has a lot of rural roads east, south and west. We really need o have money going there and not diverted.I would urge the report. one of the people died on pacheco pass. People die on the road from all over the place. The comment on sr 46 is a key route for 101 and I 5 and it's referred to as blood alley. Thank you for your time. .Thank you.So very briefly, I want to set the record on what's going on. When you hand over the system to bart, they need six months. The vta testing was supposed to be completed in the first week of june. As of today, first week of November that is not completed. They are really bending themselves backwards to somehowmake December 28th happen. If it doesn't, I hope that nobody has the guts of accusing the bart people of having done anything wrong.Thank you..Okay, that takes us to item 8. 2, the chairperson's report. And was able to attend the american public transportation association annual conversation with nuria, vice-chair chavez and board member hendricks.At the conference held election for chair and I would like to congratulate our manager as the chair of transportation association. We were very happy to be there. [ applause ] for nuria. I was talking to people from all over the country and I said, I come from the land of nuria and they said, okay. It was very great to be there for her and with her. I look orward to our year ahead where nuria plans to integration the initiatives we are working on with vta and the national organization including advocacy and innovation and workforce readiness. And the and the grand award for the next best for vta. I accepted our ward and wouldlike to say congratulations to our marketing departments for their clever campaign. Kudos to them them. I felt bad they weren't there. Also it was interesting to go to seminars at the conference and 3 there were a lot of things we were trying to do and the emphasis on development housing and businesses near transparency it. I was able to go to a session where our own bernice was a presenter and it was a jointpresentation with bart and vta and talking about the projects we have going. That was great. One of the last seminars of the 3 conference that at the last day was a very interesting workshop session with a panel of people from transit agencies around the united states. More of them were in the east coast area and they talked about the challenges that everybody seems to be having with those who are homeless that are using transit facilities or ooking to transit agencies for shelter, and it was very interesting to hear. Some of the ideas that agencies around the country have come up with and I know we've had our challenges with the route 22 and I saw some really good ideas that people had and of course we realize that we are transitagency primarily but that doesn't mean we can ignore the plight of many of the people in our community when a lot of those people are our customers. So it was a great opportunity to be there. So, moving on to 8. 2 a. It's time to consider what our leadership for board chairperson. And vice-chair. Is it board chair will be selected and those eligible for election will be serving on the vta board from 2020 to 2021. Anyone interested should send a letter to me. At the December meeting we will announce those interested in participating and then we'll vote and the new elected chair and vice-chair will take effect 2020. Get ready.Next item, 82 b, including reviewing for the proposed 2020 board of directors meeting schedule. If you have issues, contact the secretary to get the most attendance. We will be approving this next schedule December 5th meeting. Our next meeting s December 5th here.That concludes my report. are there any questions to my report?I want to give a shout out to the mayor. Your continued admiration for mountain view. When you did your national debut on fox where you were standing on a screen of city of mountain view. Recently at his national series on tv with netflix, again he had a great presentation and I know he May not have gotten credit for saying anything, he did do well. But the fact was that the fictional company piper was located in mountain view. So he continually wants to reference mountain view in a discrete way. We appreciate you coming to mountain view to visit pie piper. Okay. Okay, that was the light side. On the other one, my concern I would like to bring up is the faster bay area. I was at a meeting of coalition of cities. I'm not sure where vta is going to be going back to a sponsor whether they are going to come to us. There was a letter from the alameda transportation conference on the bay area. Are we going to bring our thoughts and present it to this group as a board versus individuals?Madam chair, I would like to respond to that. Yes, it is our intent to come back. We have before and shareda list of projects that we were able to gather by reaching out to your tac representatives and also through discussions with the city managers. We presented and met with the city manager's association. We have enough information. We are happy to come back and share that information. It's moving quite quickly. I am part of a group of general managers and i'm getting the stare down because it's not on the agenda.She's falling asleep..This could be under your general manager's report which is on the agenda.There are a group of general managers in the bay area that we are going to get together and finalize the list of projects so we have one coordinated reduced duplication because many of us are serving the same corridors. That's one aspect as to what's going on. I'm sure there are other groups that are contributing to the process. .The reason, i'm going to continue. The fact is that when our presentation came back, they were trying to avoid the projects and principals and things being decided on metrics and the board wants to hear. I know we have had discussions before and we that had presentation but haven't have heard so far and that direction could help this board. They are trying to say, you can get this project, but that doesn't mean you are going to get there. When they have the an literal criterias that will be better to present. .Absolutely. the second time we presented we had we to representatives, jason baker.That's why an update would be appreciated.Absolutely. we'll do that. .Okay, anyone else? items under 8. 4 are in your packet and the reading folder. And are there any otherannouncements? If not, that takes us to closed session. We will be discussing 9. 1 a, b, c. Thank you.