Santa clara valley transportation authorityPlease stand by...> test test test testGood morning!Hair hendricks: good morning, our meeting is now called to order. Thank you for joining our workshop. As a reminder, we are going to try to end at 11:00 a. M. I can't wait for us to come back to start having an in person meeting because I would love to see you guys face-to-face and in person. At this time, if everyone can unmute their mics.9:01 AMRennie.9:02 AMRoll call, please.Clerk: coga, langley, byrd, carrasco, constantine, gillmor, jimenez, lee, liccardo, montano, peralez, rennie, simitian, jones, chairperson hendricks.Attending.Liccardo is present as well. sorry. Thank you.Next we are moving to public comment. 2. Public comment reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. The amount of time allocated for this section of the agenda May vary at the chairperson's discretion depending on the number of speakers and length of the agenda.9:03 AMDo we have any public comments?Yes, we do, chair. before I call on the first speaker, we would like to inform on the record that Mr. Mack'spublic comment has been received and is online.Thank you.Mr. Lebron, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good morning, chair, members. I just want to give ou a brief update on the meeting that was held in gilroy last night. Those of you who haven't heard, they are proposing to turning the entire parking lot to todd. It was very clear that staff andconsultants have been doing this for a while and they have a plan for bringing forward an approval the developer to the board. The mayor of gilroy, I have never heard of this neither has the supervisor wasserman. My ask is to first stop this and for every caltrain parking lot in vta, and no. 3, direct staff to refocus the todd activities to the 34 acres surrounding the light-rail station. Thank you.9:04 AMClerk: Mr. Bateman, go ahead and begin speaking.Next speaker, please.Chair hendricks: maybe we should try Mr. Bateman again. public speaker: I have a question, is it possible that you can go to another public speaker and I can be last because i'm sorting out things.9:05 AMYou are the last in the queue.Oh, all right. I will try my best, thank you. The ideas of continuity will be important and what is manychanges in the vta in the past few months. I will do my pain a few months to do the best practices and it's up to you to do this sustainability and what I can offer and I hope you will develop a good perspective withthis process today. The vta with their plans and how to address their needs along the route and I made my own concept studies that can be good examples in the current thinking needed for a state 85 committee.From this, how a small piece meal how this project today can be developed a small needs of studyingquestions of the committee. I hope all of this is toward the goals of an open process, open and shared public.9:06 AMThank you. I think that was our last public speaker. We are going to go ahead to move on to the actual workshop item 3. 1. 3. 1. Information item - receive an update on the next generation high capacity transit study. (verbal report) this is an update and there are no scenarios and staff is looking for our feedback about this. I want to ask everybody to stay engaged. This is about being able to look into the future andforward into what we are doing and your information and insights are going to be really helpful as we continue through this process. Debra, planning and program officer and transportation planning transit capital planning will be providing our presentation. I'm going to pass the floor to them.9:07 AMAll right. thank you, chair, hendricks. I appreciate the emphasis. Just to reiterate what the chair said, I want to emphasize what we are presenting to you is e are really at a key point where we are trying to give you some of our initial results and getting your feedback in the study as to the few scenarios. I know you are used to getting used to a recommendation, but this is such a big decision that we wanted to come to you before we finish our study and -- scenarios.I also want to mention that we have david nelson with jacobs engineering group and they will also be handling the presentation today. This is to give you a study to the board to talk to you about the light rail system which is aging and May need to be replaced in the next few years. We initiated the study in May2020 last year and bringing updates to the capital program committee throughout last year. Today we are going to be reflecting on some of those updates that we brought o the committee as well as showing yousome of the directions and the scenarios that we will move forward with at least to get feedback on. After that, we'll be refining scenarios taking back the feedback we heard today and completing the study. I wantto know that what we'll have after this is a study and we are not going to have a formal recommendation.This is to provide information to the board so the board can move forward with their decision makingprocess. We want to talk about today's agenda and I have already discussed the context for today's study.We are going to to preview some of the existing work that's been conducted and the presentation is going to be detailing three scenarios. The scenarios that we are going to detail is essentially keeping our light rail system and some strategies about how to extend the useful life of the fleet s well as start piloting some new technologies. The second scenario we are looking at integrating buses into the corridor and what that looks like and what that would entail. The last scenario is replacing the entire light rail corridor with an exclusive right-of-way transit system. This was not recommended by the capital program committee but something to show you to give you a cost comparison to show you the different in cost. I want to talk to you about the feedback from the program committee and focus on what is most appropriate for vta andthis includes modes and some bus ways on the roadway and guide way and like condo-- econed -- we want to be clear about the operations and something I would like the board to reflect on today's presentation are some questions for the specific kinds of feedback that we wnt. Is there any additional information the board needs a decision about the light rail system which should be further analyzed and dropped and if there are any further scenarios the board would like to have analyzed. With that, I will jump to thepresentation. To give you an idea of our light rail system which is 42 miles of right-of-way and that is agency wide. We have an average daily ridership of 27,000 boarding, prepandemic. This can go 65 miles per hour, our average speeds are close to 15-25 miles per hour due to the crossings we have in our system. We have about 19 light rail cars and use 61 cars that are our peak. The typical life expectancy isabout 30 years or million miles. We purchased the vehicles in 2003 and would expect the life to end around 2030. The next slide I want to detail some of the key observation system. We have really low ridership andhigh cost and maintenance cost. Operating cost paying on going costs such as traction power and paying for the buses diesel fuel and to maintaining our system, maintaining the tracks, the infrastructure, those are costs we have to pay regardless if we run one train or 100 trains. Our fuel has been great and hitting our marks from our trains. Two points I want to hit home is the speeds from the light rail system are from the crossings. We have about 100 throughout our system. Any other technology that was operating with all of these intersections would have pretty similar speed for rail. The key for ridership s the light censors in the system. The light rail corridors have low land use sensitive lights today that keeps this low. How this May impact our system, our new technology mode May increase but May not increase in cost and brand new mode May have an impact on ridership. They are the light censors around the system. We want to start talking about the modes and technology we looked at. Jasons did a pretty extensive look for us for the technology across the world. We also supplemented that with the information from the diridoninformation that the city of san jose put out. Vta was one of the steering committees for that and we took the information from the technology vendors. When we look at this table, the technology is on the left, themodes on the left are the modes that we don't think are congruent with the vta past requirements. They are not high enough to serve the light rail corridor or require infrastructure that doesn't make sense for the light rail corridor. The modes on the top right are the modes that can potentially meet our student requirements but at least where we understand it is today they require four grades of separation. I do want touch on here that this includes more sophisticated technology with specific to transit and technology that is changing pretty quickly. We do know that there are handful of projects showing up that are at grade and a lot of these are pretty limited. The one in jacksonville today where it is about a half mile test trackthat is operating at grade but they limit their speeds to 15 miles per hour and only serve two stops. What we are seeing is there are some promising technologies but at least with how we understand them todaythey would require a fully upgraded system if we were to upgrade o the vta system. The question is what could be technology to be the most accurate and that would be light rail and bus transit. Our technology refining just to give you a brief overview is that there is no one single mode that stands out. Vta has a lotof options. Bus and light rail and May not eed significant infrastructure changes while a non-standard mode May require pretty significant structure changes and has more risks because we haven't seen any systems develop into a full large system as vta's. These autonomous features are coming to all vehicles in the immediate future. Another way of thinking about that is while these prg technologies are purporting thatthey could perate today but they require full grade separation. We might as well wait for buses and light rail trains to be able to operate autonomously for this con if you have any questions because we know -- configuration because we know it's coming. David will talk about where light rail is going.9:17 AMThank you very much, jason. light rail automation as little as three years ago was something that was not seriously discussed and there was a presentation and lights went out in my head going oh my goodness.Out of the business of driving cars research and self driving cars which your area is the worldwide leader of development and technology, their transit industry in europe and in asia are looking at ways to install the safety features and the automated operation features that are in automobiles that are now in testing in california and around the world to increase safety and now they are doing demonstration deployments inplaces as far flung as germany and china. How does this work? Just like if you have a high end automobile and pretty soon it's going to be every automobile in america that you buy new. There is a radar system in the front of the car that identifies what it determines to be obstacles and if you don't stop for thoseobstacles, it will apply the brakes for you. That radar is built into these systems. They also have a high resolution video camera. Most new trains now have a camera in the front end anyway for accidentrecording and monitoring employee behavior. And they use those two features with artificia artificial intelligence and other elements to allow the vehicle first for driver and safety and with experience and with time, nobody is doing it on a revenue basis at this point then baseball # -- be able to make it less involved and where the operator is superfluous. How does it do all this? This photograph is a representation of a computer. A company in russia who are among the leaders of this particular application. As you can see it identifies the pedestrians as units that are not normally there. One of the things that the train comes toknow is the route, they know the route extraordinarily well. They never forget. They are never distracted.They are the model employee and they use the signals as the operator does. This scenario is a significant reduction that was seeing a break through in that most automated trains that have been implemented in the last 40 years or all of them rely on central control to tell them whether or not they can go or not go.But now that we have a robot that can see in the control cab, he, she, it, can look at those and react tosignals just like a human -- or just ike a robot as in a car. Is this you or me, jason?9:21 AMThat is you, david.Oay, the light rail automation look has some real interesting elements and I mentioned many of them. Noupgrades required. When you are getting into your environment without operators you are allowed to increase the frequency of reducing your operating cost that May be 20 years away that allows operatingflexibility when you are autonomous. The vehicles can be receipt fitted for autonomous operations in most cases. All of the demonstration deployments around the world are retrofitting ehicles and by new vehicles.Not a lot of material needs to be added to the car. The technology will be in the immediate term. The regulations, the public acceptance, the working with the workforce will take longer. In the short run,putting the system on the train to monitor operations and provide a level of driver assistance creates an increased level of safety. In boston, they are installing these with no standard intention to automate the operation. It's just to reduce he incidents of accidents where people step in front of trains that isinattention on the part of the operator and one train happens to run into another one. So, with that, next slide. Back to jason.9:23 AMSo at this point we want to get into the three scenarios we developed and this is conceptual and give the board an idea. We are not giving you any idea as to the three scenarios but looking for the board to provide us feedback on what ideas are in these scenarios they want us to look to more. It looks like the slide got cutoff. The first scenario is keeping or light rail system and buying more vehicles and using the strategy to provide more fleet and May provide some autonomous technologies. The second is integrating buses into the light rail system which will need infrastructure changes. But it will give us the most operating flexibility, much more than we have today and in the last scenario, not recommended by the program committee this is to decommission the light rail system and build an exclusive light rail system.The light rail scenario is that. We would be keeping the system almost as is. We would essentially bebuying a new light rail fleet. One of the key options that we are previewing here is at a current space the use of the life of the fleet would end about 2032. Today we mostly operate two car trains, so essentially two trains that are hooked together operating as one train. We operated more of a single train cutting that in half we can extend our fleet by a half life or so. Say you have a piece of bread and spreading peanut butter on it, you can spread it quickly on half slice a bread and you can take that same amount of peanut but over the entire piece of bread to make it go longer. That's what we are doing is spreading it out for a longer period and just spreading it out.9:26 AMBack to david.When we started this project before the pandemic we were looking t the ridership levels. Single car trips would carry the required before the pandemic 3 without adding new trains which was why we were intrigued by there option with the excess capacity that is being provided enough in the scheduling that you were doing before the pandemic. Let's talk about the pilot to automation. This is a rapidly emerging and rapidly evolving technology in the light rail environment. A number of systems are looking at this mostly as I said in asia. The pathway to real automation is 5-15 years out and the way you would implement this and the way that the others are implementing it is to implement a small number of vehicles and work with it and teach the omputer and work through the system to eventually deploy the technology in anautonomous self driving mode when he regulation, workforce and the passengers are ready for it. There is typically seven steps over time that are done with these demonstrations. First, the hardware and softwares installed on a small number of trains allows you to install the software. The artificial telling # intelligence begins to learn their routes and next you have the brakes in an automobile. You won't buy a car that doesn't have automatic brakes and the artificial intelligence continues to learn. Over time as confidence in the system builds and begins to do more driver assistance functions like locking and opening the doors and checking for passengers that are running for the train. Then the next big jump is a depot autonomous pilot where you allow the train to operate by itself inside the maintenance depot from the tracks to the storage tracks without an operator in the cab. It allows you to demonstrate and allows you to get confidence that this robot can follow instructions and safely maneuver the trains. Over time, you will need more advanced driver systems and then three years out, five I years out, you do a demonstration and demonstrate that this technology that you have been working on and so far in a safety and driver assistance type mode isnow at least tentative ready with training wheels to operate in the street. At that point, it becomes aregulatory and acceptance issue. In time, I don't think that, I would be surprised that the first autonomous self driving vehicle in america will be a light railcar, but it ould be. But as self driving taxis and self driving tunnels come into more wide use, then your position of this organization with a team of robot trains thathave been trained that can run your network when you decide to do so. How long will that be? I don't think it will be 20 years. Somewhere in that range.9:30 AMIf I can add a little bit to what david is talking about with the automation. Just to give you an example, I think what we have been seen in terms of the world with some of the automation pilots the operator is key to piloting these technologies and understanding how they work and serve the community. I have beenlooking into this automation pilot automated bus pilot in singapore where they have two operators when they are testing it out, one pilot is behind the wheel at all times to make ure they can take control if theyneed to and another operator on board who acts more of an ambassador who are the ones who will help someone in a wheelchair or if there is any questions about the autonomous bus, they are the ones answering the questions. Right now, with the way automation pilots are going, the operator is still onboard still doing a lot of their duties. This is to allow the features we are doing right now is to add in another fail phase so both the bus nd the operator can operate. This is the technology that we see in theshort-term. In terms of the long-term for full autonomous technologies, we are not sure when that's going to come. It could be as little as three years or as long as 20 years. I think it's probably somewhere on the longer term because regulatory nature is really the thing that is going to take the longest is getting people to feel safe enough along this. I do want to talk a little bit about the risk and challenges associated with this scenario. Particularly, it's around this light rail and technology and we know that light rail cost andbuses. We also know that light rail system has some flaws in it and because it slow and at crossings and some areas that have to be improved and significant issues. And o adopt really any technology specificallyautonomous technologies. Essentially we would be burdening, holding the burden for some of these things that we need to understand as a technology as a whole. Another way to go about it is we wait until another agency has really figured this out and we adopt that technology. If we really want to be a first group outthere, there are some associated with that. There are also benefits. This scenario would have pretty imit capital cost and there wouldn't be significant changes to the experience. Our light rail passengers who have been riding since before the pandemic would probably not feel any significant changes even with the new vehicle, a lot of the way the system is, wouldn't change very much. I do want to talk about what animplementation timeline for this is. It would be five years from the day you start to implement the vehicles and would probably have to order new vehicles in the 2025-2026 time range. However however, we would need to make a decision before that. We would put dissertation together for the vehicles, how many seats,what kind of train and what features it needs. If we kept the status uo and idn't change the operations, we would have to decide this in the next three years. This pushes the timeframe out up to seven years. Even ifwe did a fraction of this and just reduced some of our light rail vehicles throughout the system and reduced the life to 3-4 years, that is still pretty valuable time for us to better understand what to do next. Should also note here that we are proposing to buy a smaller light rail fleet to better suit our capacity needs. As Imentioned today we only use about two-thirds of our cars in our daily service. Most agencies use about 75% of the their cars in a daily service. A fleet that would be more appropriate for a fleet would be 75 cars. 15 years from now, if we realize we need more cars, we just order more cars at that point as opposed to buying a whole fleet at one time. Lastly, with the autonomous pilotings, we can start that atany time. I think the keyword is do we wait to decide to buy a new fleet and have those added features onto the cars or do we start retrofitting our new vehicles before or after we deal with this autonomous technology. I do want to run over to the next scenario. So this would be integrating bus and light rail into the existing light rail corridor. Essentially we would be recommending piloting this on one small setting to make sure we are comfortable with these operations and we like them. We also have a full system for thisneed. It May seem easy to pave over the tracks but there is a lot of engineering that would need to be involved with this. I would also recommend combining this to the light rail system to give us the most flexibility going forward. An example of this are pittsburgh and seattle, seattle one of the most prominent examples. Hey are taking he buses out of the tunnel to get more light rail through the tunnel. I do want tonote that these are short segments and no system wide examples of doing this in our country. I mostly want to note that our system is con figured in various types of light rail configurations and tracksconfigurations configurations. Em bedding track for that 76 miles and install some pretty sophisticated light systems. The picture on the bottom shows the panel track that is the concrete panel that till has he railexposed for buses and light rail vehicles to operate it on it at the same time. Essentially most of bus are incompatible with this. We have to buy specialized buses to facilitate these operations and the period wouldtake a long time, decades. The big key here is the public utilities commission doesn't allow for this.Another reason to try a pilot out is to make sure to show the public and the c puc that this is a safeoperation and there is some benefits in it for us. There are some pretty big benefits for this. We would increase the utilization of our right-of-way and operation of the facility and to better serve the number of passengers and reduce our bus fleet and operating cost. The schedule, the first portion is similar to the last schedule I showed other than we would recommend buying a small fleet and we would get away with a 40light rail cars. We would pilot it on north first street first that is a section of our system that has a least amount of infrastructure needed to operate these operations and we would get it through the rest of thesystem. The key here is once we start implementing on a larger part of the system, we have to purchase about a hundred total buses over the period to substitute the light rail buses we had anticipated. The last scenario we are noting is the exclusive transit system that is not recommended. We believe it's a multimillion dollar project and would be major disruption to both our light rail passengers to use this system as well as the communities where these systems are located because we would essentially be building largel elevated structures throughout our county. Essentially we would be taking most of our system and fully decommissioning nd demolishing it to a new system in place. This system is already gradeseparated and will allow us to do it more easley -- for the light rail scenario, it would be about a half billion dollars but the majority for a new fleet of vehicles, the new vehicle is $5 million and the associated costwith piloting some of these technologies. If we were to stay with the light rail system and wanted to make some major changes to the system, those costs are not associated here. For the integrated bus and lightrail system we would reduce our vehicle procurement cost a little bit. We would be buying a much smaller light rail fleet but what would allow us to take these operations would be about a quarter of a billion dollars. Really all in cost would be about a billion dollars total o allow for these operations. For the exclusive right-of-way transit systems with similar projects we have seen in the world recently that would be roughly a $13 billion investment. As for operating cost savings, we think we can ave about $10 million a year in the short-term by operating shorter trains by operating this light rail scenario with this service thatsavings goes down a little bit by $6 million. In terms of operating costs, the ntegrated bus and light rail operations, we think we can do about $5 million net. If we lower the bus ridership to night service wewould save $15 million from our light rail budget but would have to supplement that with $10 million with increasing our bus and light rail operation. To summarize the three scenarios, the scenario that would have the least capital investment would have the least disruption to passengers but the highest cost but keeping the status quo. And in the second scenario, it does afford us the most options going forward and some operating cost savings and some minor disruptions during the conversion process. For the exclusive right-of-way scenario there are multibillion dollars and especially one proven intentional or technology that w# -- unproven technology that we have not seen with light rail. Back to the beginning of the presentation, if there is additional information the board needs for the future light rail system which is ideas we presented should be further analyzed or dropped or any refinements the board would like to see. With that, we are happy to take any questions.9:43 AMGood. thank you very much. we have a lot of great information. We will first take public comment.Thank you.We have a submitted comment.Mr. Lebron. public speaker: about some of the lines, the lines are ready for operation. Single cars will never work between santa teresa and downtown because of cal triaining and experience and san jose state. The speed to light rail needs to be increased from santa teresa an and downtown. There is no need to replace cars why are staff increased ridership capacity as opposed to light rail. If you run without operators, crime is going to get out of control on the light rail system.9:44 AMThank you.Next speaker, please.Good morning, board, ramsey, distinguish manager of policy and sustainability for the dot in san jose and also the project manager for the rfi looking at the airport connection. I wanted to add a couple thoughts for board's consideration. One, what's the real scope of this study, and what's the overall question we are trying to answer? What we really want to know is how do we increase the usefulness of our transit right-of-way to increase ridership. We want to know how we can make the transit ridership increase as much aspossible. Right now we are looking at potentially reducing capacity and looking at really long ime frames for new technology. We have a very short time to start meeting equity and environmental goals nd I thinkwe need to ask bigger questions about where the overall system is going.9:45 AMNext speaker, please. michael followed by ryan. Public speaker: when the first 20 miles light rail wascompleted in 1991 it was busy but then you tarted connecting other buses. When it was getting too difficult to connect to light rail, ridership fell. Vta also cut back on light rail frequency, it was ten minutesnow it's 20. Ridership has also fallen. But then there are tens of thousands that depend on light rail. Light rail is not a stand-alone system. The connection to network, the stronger, the higher the ridership will be.If buses increased, light rail will increase. Vta's buying new cars in the system and not abandoned it.9:46 AMRyan, you May begin speaking when you are ready.9:47 AMPublic speaker: good morning directors, I urge you to simply purchase new light rail cars nd improve the existing service. So I used to live and will again live near the green line and from diridon to winchester haseverything that is best from light rail. I encourage you to ride that if you haven't already. Hat track is astraight line and own dedicated right-of-way and crossing guards so there is no need to wait at the lights.If we expand those principles of the crossing guards to the rest of the system, we can greatly improveservice and ridership without spending money for retrofitting the lines and on technology. Please save the railway by purchasing additional cars and reducing the time they have to wait at lights. Thank you verymuch for your time.9:48 AMMr. Bateman, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. It is my understanding that the delivery of small packages with using ab technologies for these practices over the next 15 years and will prevent natural disasters in the next 5-10 years and with electric buses in thecharging stations and budget needs and will help are renewable needs and as been helping for several years and we hope it's not competitive and I hope this is a good example in more open shared projects to vta projects in the community. I hope we can share all projects and ideas. Thank you.9:49 AMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hi, thank you. I would ike to echo what some of the previous commenters said that I think the best is to increase the usefulness of our existing system y extending thelight rail vehicles and purchase new ones as pointed out the best way to increase ridership would be to reform land use around the corridor and encourage denser developments to make the system more useful for customers additionally improving connections as well as buses and electrification can make the system useful and using the existing system as is would save money for available operations to increase frequency and further improve the effectiveness of the system. I hope the board hooses to go with preserving the existing system over time. Thank you.9:50 AMHi. hayden. public speaker: my name got cutoff. I think there needs to be improving on the focus of thecars and maybe extending the life of the current cars if it does not reduce the capacity. S I think ways of doing this is increasing the speeds. It's annoying sitting on a bus while watching others go by. Some of the connections with technology, you have to run up the stairs and run down to another one and miss the train and you have to wait 30 minutes for the next one because the frequencies are so messed up. I think there is a lot of room for improvement.9:51 AMPublic speaker: good morning, board, this is ras, atu representative and want to mention how hard it is to go to this study and the board also unanimously voted to finally moving forward to extending the light rail to east san jose. As promised with measure a. This is a threat to our community. We have 200 employees in vta and 5,000 employees in public transit in california. We need to take a hard look at what we are doing here. These are very good jobs and stable careers. Innovation is great but at what cost. We should look atincreasing this service to get the public to prepandemic.9:52 AMI'm sorry, I cannot pronounce your name correctly. Public speaker: hi. I would just echo some of the comments about extending the life fleet and replacing new fleet. I do agree with the concerns about land use and corridors and to be accelerated and also understand about cost and especially with covid nd cars and electrification. I think that there is a possibility that vta has a bright future ahead of it and more people are going to call san jose their home just like I did. We can't fit everyone all of these people into cars. It would be vta and other transit systems in order to get where they have to go. Thank you for your time. Is public speaker: hi, my name is monica, we have made many mistakes and this one has a lot of potential and as cal trans has electrified more frequent ridership will go up. F you go back to old data, the ridership was higher when there was more service in the light rail system and buses. Please don't act likethe light rail is destined for failure and a system without operators isn't a system that I want. Vta operators help us feel safe and they provide information when we need it and they save lives. Thank you.9:54 AMNext speaker, please. zachary, please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good morning,board, zachary -- I would like to address the challenges that we face with public transit with cars with electronic autonomous vehicles and guard ways are developed that the fares we pay to the can support the build-out operations of the entire system and with moving every single passenger. Case in point, san jose rfi submission with group, outlines the system that is a magnitude cost in the study. Transit does not need to be subsidized and will find on the fair box alone and operating by the middle of this year and also have studies with south san francisco and studies with east contra costa county. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, my name is bob. A frequent vta user. I'm disappointed with this and that you will possibly eliminate jobs. I think these are pretty good jobs and in san jose, it's very expensive to live in. There is a focus on this new shiny technology when there is more that we should be doing that we are not. We are improving a great system of light rail. I would much rather see money and energy directed towards these efforts which are best practices throughout the systems around the world rather than focus on a new shiny thing because they are seeming innovative. I would encourage you to extend he life span of the existing vehicles as much as possible to continue with light rail.9:57 AMNext speaker, please. public speaker: I thought it was an informative presentation but it went around what I think is the elephant in the room which is the really slow operating speeds and we know how to fix that pretty cheaply with signal prioritization, crossing gates, fencing. Those are things that we can do pretty cheap, and that will increase ridership and will also reduce operating and maintenance costs because ittakes less time for the train to get from one end of the route to the other so you need fewer of them. So I was going recommend focusing on that. Thank you.That concludes our public speaking, Mr. Chair.9:58 AMThank you. that was our last speaker. I will close the public speaker section now and moving on to our board members. Member liccardo?If you are talking, we can't hear you, sam. Sam, I can't hear you right now.Sorry. did you just lose my audio?We are hearing you now.I'm sorry, my audio cutoff. the question about light rail system and how t compares to other rail systems nationally in terms of faire box return. Did we get a comparison?Sure, we are relatively low compared to other agencies. Both our ridership is low and our operating cost and maintenance cost are high which leads to low fare box recovery. It is a little bit of a push on bothsides. As some of the commenters mentioned, our ridership has been high in the past and will probably get higher once the projects come into the area as bart phase 2 into downtown and the speed rail. That willincrease the new mexico -- numerator part of that and we have very large system with so much to maintain. It really does cost us a lot to maintain such a system.9:59 AMJason, we ever had a high fare box return as long as I have been in the 14 ears on the vta board, I have not seen it more than 15%, is that fair to say?Yeah, that's the range.10:00 AMAren't we the lowest in the united states?For fare box recovery, I believe we are.It's not just a relatively low problem. We have a problem whereby most standards in transit is a failing system and we are struggling mightily to provide transit to people who need transit everyday and e have lots of resources and we are pouring a lot of money into the system that has the worse fare box return in the country. I went on wikipedia to checkout fare box returns and we are not the worse system in the world, there is one in orlando that is subsidized by disney. This is not a sustainable model and it's not like we just tried it. We have been trying it for decades. Whether we have really explored the options fully here and when teresa o'neill was on the board and she and I authored the memo, we had extensive conversations with nuria fernandez. What we were concerned about was multi-hundred million dollarscapital expenditures that would be required to ctually replace light rail cars. And that we were expanding a system, light rail, that was already struggling mightily to simply meet any basic standards to cost-efficient -- for that matter for providing to ridership that we can expect and we looked at full replacement from light rail to a rubber type, a full replacement. I guess you kind of contemplated that in option 3, but option 3has a ton of costs for grade separation hich we gree costs billions of dollars and is not going to happen in this decade, although we would love to see more in the valley. I wonder why we didn't study an operatingsystem that could operate, we are going to need human beings running these buses because ourautonomy is increasing tremendous. Why didn't we look into our rubber tire solution that would supplant light rail.10:02 AMSure, two parts, the autonomous part of it which we believe the autonomous condition will need an operator on these vehicles. Maybe forever. We don't know what the timeline is for that. What we are looking at is a rubber tired vehicle that could operate on the light rail corridors and what is in the network are set towards that. What we are finding is we believe a full system conversion because of our large system could take decades just to rip out the tracks, pave the area instead of putting the tracks in and also something like that would take some pretty significant costs that we haven't seen here and maybesomething else to have all of these buses and the way tracks work together there is the ballots around the track for drainage, we have to look at drainage throughout the system. Also just to give you another idea, brt costs, because I think that kind of system is similar to a brt system basically.10:04 AMA natural transaction for brt.Exactly. brt costs are 50 to 100 million per mile. That's what we have seen throughout the country. It May be a cheaper conversion than scenario two but still some significant capital expenses to achieve hat system.Assuming that you are running in a segregated lane, right? One that would be exclusive. I just think all of hose assumptions, I think really need to be intact. I really appreciate the work that you have done and extensive amount of work here but we have been doing work in san jose as well and our outreach suggest that autonomy is not a 15 year solution. It's not that far away. We know today in gainsville on second avenue, there are self driving buses being operated and florida university is very involved in that and operating on ublic roads. They are not in the right-of-way, they are on public roads. And cities likejacksonville and las vegas today they are running on their own designated lanes which by the way, we have with the form of bus and rapid transit and we have designated light rail. We have the infrastructure in place to enable an incremental solution that would enable a full transfer. But I don't know why we are chaining ourselves to light rail as this technology of the past which has not been particularly impressive by any objective measure. And I don't know why we are feeling so conservative that we can't simply at least fully analyze what a full transformation looks like. When I was having these conversations with nuria andteresa and others, we were concerned about a few things. The fact that we want a transit system that's future proof. We know that part of the roblem with fare box return on light rail has been land use. We allagree. Land use development has not come in a way frankly they were never integrated well with the system decades ago, it's very poor planning, we would all agree. But he system to shifting to land use would mean that you would want an autonomous bus system that could take a left or right turn off of a fixed line to enable you to reach density maybe two or three blocks away and that could tremendously drive ridership in ways that you can't do today because you are stuck to a rail system. We know that, i'm sorry?10:06 AMI'm sorry. I didn't mean to cut you off.10:07 AMI just think we are silicon valley and it's troubling to me that we are not even looking at what's going on in other communities in our own country let alone what's going on in the world. We can go to asia and europe and see extraordinary development happening right now with autonomy. I don't see that being presented in ways that help us understand what a full transformation might look like and it's troubling because thisindustry is in our backyard right now and the fact that puc hasn't figured out yet where they are at, lok, we all know the regulations are going to evolve with this technology, but I think we have to start with a basic assumption which is the status quo isn't sustainable and hasn't been proven to be sustainable. I feel scenario 3 is a bit of a strong arm because it contemplates and enormous investment that we May not have to make. Autonomous is working in various ways today on public roads and why we believe that wecan only operate it with grade separation not only in designated lanes, that might be the autonomy today and that's fine but seems to me we are going to need to make a lot transformations anyway, you see the bus and light rail yard, this last going to need a lot of transformation. You can imagine the system bus rapid light rail system in a single technology, the autonomous bus and yes human beings are going to be required to be on board for many years if not forever, his is something of a benefit in terms of fare box and safety. I would like to see us push a little harder on the analysis and be a little boulder and look at what a full transformation looks like and look at what the costs are and I understand the cost in what we do to transform rocks into pavement along the rail. Of but as you indicated they are laying down panels to do just that and I would like to understand much better.10:09 AMThank you.Next, vice-chair john's.I have a question. I want to add in terms of a fair question, if you -- I do ant to keep everyone in mind, that as a county, we decided to tax ourselves to our part to fund some of the taxes and that is to look at something that is much more directly. The other point which is very much so that what we are bringing to you in terms of scenario, this very much is a work in progress and what we are looking from you is if these are not the right scenarios, if you want us to look at the right scenarios, we are not looking for recommendations, these are not the final scenarios, we are very much open to shifting gears on these scenarios. And the last quick point I wanted to make and what as come out of this study and what jason has presented is he has come up with some ideas that we can extend the life of the vehicles and what we didn't know a year 1/2 ago when we started the study is that we have a little bit more time to look at these scenarios so we are not feeling quite as rushed with the recommendation. I just wanted to make a quick point.10:11 AMAs to the fare box, most of it is tax and subsidized. It's not that every system is subsidized a system with taxes but we have much lower ridership and per capita and per dollar spent. If we had better ridership we would have better ridership return. We are taxing ourselves out of necessity because we don't have a veryhigh fare box return because we don't have development and transit very well. That's poor planning, I don't blame vta for the fact that they got tuck trying to run transit in these communities. But I don't buy the assumption that we've made a conscious choice having low fare box returns by taxing ourselves. I think all that pay taxes would much rather see far more service rather than taxing and subsidizing a system that many would agree does not serve our community as well as we would like it to. It's purely afunction of our inability to drive ridership.10:12 AMThanks. i'm moving on to some of our other colleagues here. Vice-chair jones.Thank you, chair. when look at the system and I think about speed ability, capacity, I think about gradeseparation, tunnelling dedicated to right-of-way add ridership to the system. I know the c puc did not recommend option 3, so jason, I want to understand why that wasn't recommended?10:13 AMWas it just purely cost or were there other factors involved?I think cost was a pretty good factor of that. Also just the amount of changes that would need to be made to allow for tunnelling or allow for other structures. It would be pretty significant impacts to the community and passengers o move forward with that construction. C puc wanted you to focus on the mode that made most sense and the mode such as light rail and buses whether they are there automated or not really make the most sense for us as we understand these modes right now.And those costs were based on, how did you come up with those cost numbers?10:14 AMYeah, they are based on some recent projects that were constructed for elevated guide way type transit systems across the country. One more recent one in honolulu for elevated grade separation for light railsystem. A lot of these structures associated with projects ike that. The vehicle costs were some assumptions we made based on typical projects as well as actually some of the information we got from the san jose airport diridon street --I would like to ask ramsey to get back on. I have a question for him about the r 5.Ramsey, I wanted you to provide some additional detail as to some of the new technology costs associated with those technologies and how they related to the cost that we are seeing in the staff report?10:15 AMThank you, vice-chair jones. again, manager of sustainability for the department of transportation in san jose. The rfi which we worked with vta on to develop and get through looked at two different corridors, airport and diridon to steven street. The project looked at those two court orders because stevens street is the next corridor that we can build next to san jose on part of the transit that vta transit is supporting and adopted in measure a from 2000. We looked at, we want to ask the question, can we develop transit fasterthan the current model? Right? And it's a big question that we all are struggling right here, right? We are talking about $450 million to replace the light rail fleet. Is there a different way to do this and we were not, and there is a lot of very important pieces here. But the uestion that's been worked on here by vta staff isn't what should we do with new systems. It's what should we do with the current system. I think that's really important to distinguish because I think that is an oh my gosh, look at this new thing we are trying to do here and that would have everything out the door. We need to be careful about that. And there is the light car rail that was presented to you that are very close to having these systems in hand. Two, that their cost structures beyond the basic costs, right, you hit utility, utility work costs a lot of money and putting up pilars. But what we learn in that is that there is a good reason to believe that some of the undamental hardware costs around developing transit systems could be different with these new systems and this means things like all of the, I think about a bart or light rail, there is a lot of track and a lot of signals and a lot of advanced systems that have to come along on that track and when you are looking at these new systems, all of that ends up inside the vehicles except for some of the basic pieces, and this is a fundamental change to how we can develop the infrastructure to support it. Now, does that cost just samevehicles that is the question to ask? At the moment it does not seem like the cost of vehicles even though you are talking about a lot more vehicles, right. Right now there is a discussion around potentially setting up a system like this between the airport and diridon and follow up on that rfi. The vehicle numbers are up in the 400 range for that little section. Even with that number of vehicles and the cost numbers that are available through the -- being developed, on't in anyway make the bart come back up. So there is good reason to believe that there is a new cost structure for developing transit coming soon. Now, I commentjason and the vta group to bear into this difficult question with what do we do with the light rail system as is and the track system and I do appreciate that we are talking the transition towards other potential technologies but I think we have learned that the honolulu example is not the example we should be using in scenarios. And that if we are actually talking about that level have systems change, we should be talking about these other ideas that are out there and that we have a lot of information on and that it's becoming more and more eeryday. I feel there is a lot to be said about trying, we need to have the conservative scenario, we have to. We are a public agency and we need to do that as much as possible but we have to look into what is possible and that does mean taking some risks as to what the projects and strategies could be. Lastly I will say is that we do know or we have a lot of information around these new systems May not need to be grade separated totally. We ask for that when we put out the rfi for the steve's and airport connector because we believe that is key to many of the speed problems and reliability problems that we are all seeing in the system, right? But the information we got back was, well, we think we can run at grade or grade separated and yes, c puc is the big barrier, absolutely. But c puc is not a bad boogeyman. They want to see technology move forward.10:20 AMThank you. that ties nto the next point I want to make and that is first of all jason, I know that you put a lot of effort and hard work into your report and the presentation, but at least my expectation was to see different scenarios, one was maintaining the status quo and also seeing other scenarios as to what the possibilities are particularly around the right-of-way in any system that can operate on right-of-way ordedicated lanes as well as an analysis of different options. That means an roi or other metrics for options 1, 2, 3 that will give us a comparison of cost, increased ridership and other factors and bench marks that would help us make a decision. So, my request is to continue to do an analysis on option 3, the right-of-way, as well as give us an analysis comparing the three options based on specific metrics. So those are, that's my input in my recommendations.10:22 AMThanks, chappie.Can I -- sorry # -- can we get these in before we try to respond to everything.Yes, I appreciate the comments from Mr. Ramsey to as you May be aware that mountain view has done a study as well and it seems like our conclusions are very similar to what san jose delegation just shared and so that's been my interest is that. I think the light rail system and we've been talking about this since it was on vta ten years ago about low ridership and the challenges and what not. So, looking at this study and looking at the opportunity to begin to look at new technologies and in light of the fact that sounds like the south end and north end are doing similar studies and maybe there could be some opportunity to combine and look at the light rail system and what we have and repurposing parts of it if not all of it to build in more innovative system. And our challenges we are a small city and the cost of doing this on our own is more than one city could afford, but so I have been wondering if we could use the light rail system at least our part of it to do, would that help in lowering the cost. The other part issue or other opportunity we are looking at is as we have done our general plan and precise plan and specifically the north bay shorearea and where other companies are, we have implemented transportation fee for new developments. So, that would be an opportunity to find funding to get funding, but we would need of course vta's help andcommitment for further studying and the cost and how much of a fee we could implement. So, my hope is that we look at new, not a full aerial what you are looking at but some kind of combination. So I think because vice-chair jones mentioned, option 3 is where I was hoping we could go to. So that would be my request.10:25 AMNext is member burton.I concur with the other members that spoke o far. I really would like to see his as a beginning of an analysis and not kind of a something that really has define tif determination of where we are going. The -- emerging technologies, we are really looking at a transition of 21st century technologies and for a while they were imagined but they were reliant on development of tecical elements that weren't mature yet.Artificial intelligence and advancement in propulsion technologies. Those are happening right now at a very rapid pace. Ost of these companies whether it's a personal rapid transit or other technologies that we have talked about have moved from pure technology developers to integrators of technologies that have been advanced through other segments. That's a much more doable task and on a nearer horizon. And that's why we are seeing this just rapid acceleration from something that was always five or ten ears out into something that is in all likelihood first operating systems just a few years out now. And I don't want to see us locked into omething that is going to be less beneficialo our riders, most of all those who really rely on the transit system. We have to potential to have new technologies, new systems that will provide muchgreater service that will drive demand and use of the transit because it's going to have some of these have infamous head way and how that affects ridership but when it's on demand on small squad cars, it's almostimmediate rides that are origin destination so we don't have some stops and a slow system because of that. It's not certainly not solely about the speed of the cars. It's about occur in the future, and also about safety. We have some of these systems that can be not only separated at far lower cost than what we had looked at because they are lightweight systems but we are talking about car safety now because hesesmaller systems in the last year a number of these companies have rapidly integrated sanitizing of small cars between each ride and there are small cars that you don't have to share them. I think there are a bunch of advantages that have been understated or under appreciated analysis so far and I think we really need to look at and continuing to have this aggressive approach and look at how we can set up a system that is focused on this about a combination of our staff who has really been waiting into this, third party experts that we can bring in and maybe a subset of the board who really continues to engage on this and attempts to push the ball forward because I think it's the future and we can provide far superior transit at a lower cost in the coming years through some of these emerging technologies.10:29 AMThank you. next speaker member --I would like to contribute to say that I support a category 4 that would be something like integrate. I don't think it should be an either or situation.10:30 AMThank you. next is member peralez.Yeah, thank you very much. and I want to say thank you as well for the analysis that was done. I think hat as a couple, I don't want to call them realization because of the realities we know and the challenges that we have. But we talk about focusing on ensuring and maintaining we have the system that includes light rail and the ridership that includes most and we can't orget that but we also can't on the focus on that because the reality is we don't get more people out of their cars that don't actually need or depend on public transit, we are never going to get out of this cycle of low fare box recovery, the challenge of low ridership. We need to have a system that is convincing enough that is efficient enough where individuals that don't depend on public transit will choose to take it. And I think if we don't sort of think bigger in shifting that mind-set, we May make changes to the system that continue to serve the same riders and should be noted that one of the challenges is how land has been developed and if you don't have even the opportunity of riders in development to your station, then clearly you are already at a disadvantage. There are other factors that play in for me. I think one of the questions we should have asked would be if you completely sort of take all of the current challenges out and even a current opportunity and just look at asking the question, what would be the best and most efficient public transportation system for the valley here. And then begin to map that out and maybe go backwards from there recognizing that is not the reality and we have the right-of-way system and currently rail down and bus and rapid transit lanes and we have that and rather than starting from there and forced in whatever the solution May be, I would like the next focus to say go really big and look at what is the -- if we were to completely say eliminate, if we were going to be eliminating light rail and not just this scenario here where this is just an elevated guide way, maybe the right-of-way is in a different location or what I envision is just a heck of a lot more whether it's bus or brt lines or light rail, track, whatever it May be. When you look at the map overall the santa clara county area, you look at it and it's not easy to get to a lot of places and to get there officially and hence, if you have the means to a car which so many people do here, that's your choice. You choose a car. And so, I think if we looked at how do e actually, what is the biggest change. What is the best scenario and look at that and work backwards maybe versus working forward. That would be something I would be interestedin seeing and the other thing would be falling back into reality, I think going the other way based on building on the work you have already done. I would agree with my colleague that I don't think it should be so cut and dry on some of these different scenarios, I don't know if that was staff's intent, but I do think that we could look at some of the deficiencies in the system and what do some of these improvements do or could we plug them into certain places. It's always been discussed at least within thecore of the system district I represent in downtown. That that is one of the make choke points and if we made these investments and make it to underground the system there or get the grade crossing in the downtown core or even have a bike track and which maybe challenges to the 80 corridor but to have the two parallels, if you want to get into the downtown you can if you don't you can go around it. Getting into those two choke points and going ahead and looking at what we have and how we might improve it. It should be the hybrid of the opportunities to look at where the deficiencies are and go back to the beginning, no matter what we do in the system, we know that one of the biggest deficiencies is the ridership. We do need to keep doing that. If we need -- to keep on doing that, if whatever decision wemake doesn't include truly looking at how to increase the ridership which obviously is the feed of the system that we need to work on but also where we need development within the transit stops and the transit corridor. It's also where we need to prioritize transit and public transit, mass transit with the majority of the vehicles which is to get to and from today. You can poll the majority of the oard and alltransit users. I think that's one of the challenges that we have to incorporate. It's not just going to be the best and brightest of the system, but how are we actually going to make the bold moves to get people into public transit. I know obviously a lot of this work is happening in different silos within the agency arrest we are doing our tod development and we are conscious of this and we have to pull this into this as well because those are major factors in the investments we will make in the future. Thanks.10:37 AMThank you, next is member montano.Thank you, chair. as I have been listening to everyone, I think there are some really key points and it'sspeed, speed is, the reason why we don't have a lot of ridership is because the cars are too slow. So I really feel that we need to keep and improve the existing light rail system and the average speed is 15-25 miles per hour and that is unacceptable. That's why people don't get on the trains. So, we've never andwe've never really, actually the light rail cars have never had that potential to go fast because of the existing grade crossing. So, I feel that we need to incentivize ridership o that way we can by improving thespeed. I just want to share that I live near the light rail and everyday I always see only a few people on those cars on the light rail cars. It's very disheartening because i'm thinking that all of this money that the taxpayers have poured into the system to vta so they can get to point a to point b and in milpitas, we are the major crossroads from 80 to mountain view and sunnyvale, where all the jobs are, where all the high tech companies are at and we are the most congest in the region and I really feel we need to do something because the population is growing and it's only going to get worse as some of our directors havementioned. So we do need to make some bold moves as council member peralez mentioned. And what that is I don't know. We have to just brainstorm. But I do have having an elevated light rail is possibly the way to go, not in all the system but in certain corridors, for example 237. Perhaps maybe making themedian off 237 just for the light rail so that way there won't be any grade crossings, no stops, it just goes straight forward. So we really need to do something and what that is, we are going to have to work as ateam and find out an and brainstorm and ll of these ideas are elping us to come up with a plan. Those are my thoughts and I know we need to take some action because we do need to make some bold moves,thank you.10:40 AMThank you. member chavez?I want to acknowledge everyone and the taff for their work and they started the presentation y saying that they wanted everybody's input. This is not done and we are in the beginning of the process, not the end. I wanted to acknowledge that. The other thing I wanted to say is that early on, as part of the study being launched nd I say this especially for the inure board members, one of the admonitions of some of board had been to ask the staff to not bring ideas forward that weren't in use someplace in the world and I say that because the board now is saying, look a little into your crystal ball which I think is fine but I also want to say that I think staff was given slightly different direction in the beginning and even the examples that have been used by some of my colleagues are both experimental and they are in less than a mile lane. So, if in fact what we are asking for is a little bit of crystal ball, then I would just say that would add maybe the fourth column or fifth column, but I think that's fine as long as we are going to be consistent. I did want to say we do have third party consultant who presented today and committee and I want to makesure that committee is getting updates monthly at least verbally. I always forget every acronym that we have. Would say that again for the new board members that May not know that was already occurring. I was struck by a conversation I had yesterday about board governance and just was saying to this discussion, what i'm reminding reminded of is we have the responsibility of transit and no land use powers ourselves. And as we look at governance, I would say for those who are interested in governance change,the most significant thing in my mind is not whether or not we have full-time or part-time board members, the way we are and this size is fine. But the question is what powers does this board have and the otherthing to the cities and counties here too how collaborative are we with vta when we are wearing our city hats and not our vta hats because part of the reason why we are having challenges is we have fundamentally not necessarily lived up to building and allowing for significant densities along both bus routes and even our but rapid transit that we have to change ourselves and thinking about land usebecause it's actually us. The last thing I wanted to add is I wanted to hit on the last thing that I heard member montana know say about speed. You know, I do think that one of the most important things that we have to acknowledge is that if transit doesn't get you there at least as fast as your car, there is very little motivation and not to be obvious with you but let's be clear and what that means is that from my perspective is a little bit less about the technology and more about the speed. His technology is, it's faster and a lot of people are on it. So I think what we want to really focus on is the things we know. Speed, frequency, safety. We all know that, so I just want to chime in on this piece to say, I think the one thing Iwant to make sure is we look at the routing whether it's no matter what technology we are looking at and whether it's rubber tire or not, we have to look at the route of speed and access, we have to take a look at the route as we are going through this. The reason i'm sharing this with y colleagues now is we all know that the caltrain of the diridon station is really being examined for how all of our different modes oftranortation are getting out of there. This is one opportunity we are going to have to have another route for light rail through that station that doesn't necessarily go through downtown. So, you know, we've raised this a number of times and i'm just going to say that as the diridon policy advisory board meets, theone report out that i'm going to want to understand is how is light rail going to go through there or whatever it is we are using for long-term ecause the light rail does have a significant amount of value tovta. So, anyway, those are my thoughts and I really appreciated hearing from my colleagues. Thank you.10:45 AMThanks. i'm not seeing anything from my colleagues so i'm going to share a few thoughts. So as we started to look at these thoughts, I was looking at the light rail right-of-way and the rail and always come back towhat is the light rail right-of-way and what are we going to do and I would leak to see before we get to deciding what the nswer is. What came to me is what is the outcome we are trying to achieve? You know, if we change technology, don't change technology and to me it came to speed, frequency, cost, flexibility and safety. Those are really the outcomes or the vectors we are really trying to get into and that falls intowhat is the best way to utilize the right-of-way and not necessarily the technology that's there. And several of you have mentioned this to me is what are the changes that we are talking about doing and how toimprove ridership. We have to be able to say we are changing x is because we are going to be able to et y on ridership. I think as a part of this, no matter what we look to the future, we have to look at signalprioritization and signalization. And we have to look at how we can make it go faster and signalprioritization. And with this new autonomy with new cars, what is how standard are the vehicles hat we aregoing to try to acquire. When we go out. I hope we can be as standardized with other agencies and that will just drive into the cost. One of the things jason, you had a cost slide and when we show cost, it might be relevant to show the benefits we have. On the slide you had it just showed raw cost and it didn't talkabout what you get for that cost. Sometimes spending $100 is better $10 because it's more value. When we talk costs, we have to compare it back to value. In terms of what you asked what should we ropped or needs to be further analyzed? On one hand I would say drop the third section because that would say we have to have a completely grade separated answer and I think that's too expensive in the transition for how you get there, but I would like to see what it is to get more to a rubber tired vehicle because that gives us more flexibility. The last point I want to go ahead and say to everybody. We understand what we have today as a system and where we are. And I think we are trying to talk about where we want to goand hat the end state is that we are trying to achieve. But to me, the most critical part of discussing the end state is how we would transition there. Right? I don't think we can create a definition of an in-state through a series of steps to get to. Because I don't think whatever it is we talk about doing with this let's just say here we are going to a whole new elevated thing or whatever, we are not going to take and stop all the light rail service for four years while we change everything in the right-of-way to whatever the new technology is. So, whatever the, we know where we are and we know what we think about where we are and we want to define an end state that we want to achieve but that end state has to be something thatwe can achieve through some kind achieve that. I think transition- is going to become a very important part in whatever our ultimate decision looks like. So, we've got about ten minutes left in our time right here, not that we have to use it. I just wanted to check with each of my colleagues if there is any last short comments you would like to make and then we'll see if staff's got a real quick thing and my question to staff is, did you get the feedback from us that you wanted? And before we do that, how about member paul?10:50 AMThank you, chair. I completely agree with what you are saying with transitions. I would like to add that when we talk about going forward, it would be nice to be able to allow for the innovative solutions even if they are not about the vehicular solutions that are on the roads. So, when we think about transactions,maybe we can think about particular lines that aren't there and think about whether we can produce innovation there and also integrate with what e have to be it light rail or bus lines. And then I want to make one comment and I don't want to say that this is one of these types of situations where we can'thave the necessary economic density there in order to more vibrantly support particular solutions or innovations, but I think it's just a fact of life that politically we do have a situation where if we really want to look at transit in our county and work backyards from what is an ideal hopefully future proof solution that will set us up economically in a really vibrant kind of manner similar to what we've had in the last 30 years for the next hundred years, I think we really need to look at some of these political realities. I think if we put the this infrastructure in, the density will come eventually and if you look at these communities, including my own, I will admit, it almost becomes a complete deterrent to be able to get this politicalsupport for these types of solutions. So I would like to put this out there. I'm not trying to take up the banner of let's not do this, let's not do anything or not welcome people in because i'm completely insupport of the idea of integration and being able o integrate thought fully. If we are trying to achieve something of a solution.10:53 AMThank you. member constantine.Thank you, and as a new member, I want toExcuse me, your volume is off.What I would like to say is that I don't want it to be based on today just on financial issues. In new york, if you were going to build the new york subway system today people would say it's too expensive and no one is going to ride it. I will just tell you that the new york subway system began operations in 1904. What we decide, long-term, whatever we put forward has a good foundation that we will be able to use thefoundation but continue to se it as is. And I know that is not an easy thing and we are asking staff to come p with a crystal ball, ut we need to look far into the future and looking at what our financial stability is, we should sometimes ignore it. That's my comment. Thank you very much, chair.10:54 AMThanks. I don't see any of y colleagues hands up.10:55 AMI'm going to staff.I have one more comment.I think we need to sacrifice in the short-term so long-term in the future, we can have a system that will be inclusive and include all the safety and other factors that we had that vta implements on. I really like his forward thinking. Thanks.Thanks. I don't see any others. I'm going back to staff. You wanted to hear some dialogue and feedback from the board. So my question to staff is did you get what you wanted to get out of this meeting?10:56 AMThank you, chair, hendricks. yes, we did and we did try to get the details in scenario to get feedback but not so set in stone that we didn't want to be so vague. So we will take your feedback into account. We really heard you about the speed, safety, stability, what can we do for enhance technology and what technology can we ensure to be in place to bring us into the future. I want to echo that the other thing we got out of this study that some places are different and thank you member chavez. We have a littledifferent direction two years ago and also a little bit more time than we had two years ago and only had a couple years to make this decision. So we have more time to learn more about these emerging technologies and how quickly are they going to emerge in the time that we have to make these decisions.So we will keep working on this and looking at scenarios as we come back for more information.10:57 AMThis is great to be able to bring this topic ack to continue the dialogue in a workshop fashion like this isgoing to make lot of sense and what you need time to do and process everything you got from us here. So with that, i'm going to close this item out. It's not an action item. We on't need to take a vote or anything.I'm moving on to item 4 which is announcements. The only announcement I have is a reminder to everyone is that our next regular board meeting is scheduled for Thursday March 4th t 5:30 p. M. And beheld on video and teleconference. Did nyone else have any other announcements they would like to make?I'm not seeing anybody there. So i'm going to go ahead and adjourn this meeting and we are going to adjourn to the new member board orientation. This is to my colleagues, if you are attending the orientationmeeting, go ahead and stay on there. Members of the public May attend this organization. If you have comments, please send them to the board secretary. This is the closure of the workshop. I want to thank everybody for attending. We are going to go ahead and start the board orientation meeting next. But Ithink we are going to give everybody a five minute break for us to go ahead and do that. So by my clock, we are going to start at about 11:04.