Good afternoon I like to call the June 6 meeting of the board of directors to order. Ren? E would you please call the roleBlankley rowan, carr, carrasco, candy up ellenberg fine present. Jones, ricardo present. Mcallister be present miller morales rennie [inaudible] chavez here. O'neil spear we have a quorum.4:35 PMOkay. thank you. good afternoon member carr. So I guess will go ahead and have the pledge of allegiance now. Please, stand.>> [pledge of allegiance]Okay. that takes us to item 1. 3 on the agenda, order of the day. Staff has requested my moving thefollowing items from the closed session. 2. 1-the c conference with legal counsel existing litigation. And 2.1-e conference with the real property negotiated. I want to note will recess into closed session at the approved order of the day and reconvene in open session and 5:30 pm are there any other changes to theorder of the day? All those I favor [chorus of ayes. ] any opposed say, nay. Thank you very much but we will nowconvene in closed session.5:20 PMRecording was Paused5:31 PM[gavel]5:32 PM>> [closed session][gavel]Good afternoon. the board is now coming back into open session. General counsel tran to have a reportfrom closed session?Yes. the board recessed a closed session to discuss items 2. 1 a, 2. 1 b, 2. 1 d and 2. 1 f good noreportable actions were take on closed sessionThank you very much. that will take us to items 3. 1 retiree commendations the biographies of our retireesfor 3. 1 we read by elizabeth [inaudible] human resource analyst.5:33 PMTonight we would like to recognize joyce warner-menino electronics technician. Joyce began her career with santa clara transit district in November 1987as an electronic technician. Joyce is exemplaryperformance and commitment to her work earned her the prestigious employee of the month award of March 2007. Joyce is recognized for her high level of expertise, experience and her willingness to take on any challenge and was highly respected by all who knew and worked with her. Joyce provided 31 years ofdistinguished public service and was an asset to pta. Congratulations, joyce warner-menino.>> [applause]5:34 PMGood afternoon. we the board is now coming back into open sessionThereby earning the procedures 2 million my old opeerator safety award. Ronald was recognized for hisrespectful tackle tactful demeanor commendable work ethics. Ronald provided 31 years of distinguishedpublic service and was an asset to bta. Congratulations to ronald angel.>> [applause] and last,And last April jones [inaudible] April began her career with santa clara county transit district in September1998. As a coach operator and changed her classification to parks clerkin February 2007. April was anexcellent employee and demonstrated willingness to take on any job. 2005, April received the commendation for providing outstanding t customer servi and serves as a role model for her fellowcoworkers. April provided 30 years of distinguished service and was an asset to bta. Congratulations toApril jones.5:35 PM>> [applause]Tonight we like to recognize crystal ray [inaudible] a jesuit high school student bta begins partnership with crystal ray jesuit high school in 2014. This unique opportunity introduces uunderserved high school you to the professional office environment bta would like to recognize the 2018 -2019 crystal ray interned fortheir outstanding contributionsto vga. Vta.5:36 PMBecomingRamon alcatel, sellers and operations planning. Victoria us nco, software, [inaudible]. Alexis martinez, freshman, recruitment and selection. Beyond martinez, sophomore, enterprise risk management. Pedroramirez, freshman, purchasing contracts and materials management. And a few that were not able toattend tonight, christian c? Rdenas, senior, bta axis paratransit program. Jasmine lozano, freshman for safety and compliance. Maria lopez, senior, organizational development and operations training. And lastly, kyle martinez, senior, retirement services. Each of these students has been a valuable resource to vta in the respective departments. They fulfilled their internship with professionalism a willingness to take on new and challenging tasks, with a positive attitude. I thank them for their contributions and wish them the best of luck in their future endeavors.5:37 PMLet us give them another round of applause.>> [applause]Thank you very much all of you for your amazing contribution and for those of you do not know, you will see them around our campus and they are very very professional we are just so excited you all participated with us. So, thank you and we went public comment on this and that is tessa hesse, come on ford. This is on this item, 3. 2? okay. Welcome.5:38 PMI love democracy, I have [inaudible] always very disappointed and because when we have that 2019-06-06t20:38:05. 4289713-04:00 [inaudible] and there were the interns come all of them there and I said tothem, well I really want somebody at that desk that says welcome public. Here is how you do it could this is what you do. Here is the agenda. There is a panoply of papers on the table could no signage about where the agenda was even the one person I asked, that worked for ada, pointed the wrong thing. And so when I said to the interns, not when I can, why do not you go you should be there, you should know, but I do not know because you are leadership is not teaching them about democracy. And that is what frustratesme about your awarding your interns good because you do not teach them about democracy there should be somebody at the table saying, welcome to the public good take this card there should be a box somewhere with a sign that says that is where it goes. Okay? This is the agenda for tonight. And these papers deal with a blob about law. That is the way we run democracy and you are not doing a good nicaeathroughout our city throughout all of our governments. So that is my suggestion about working withinterns.5:39 PMThank you. so that takes us to item 4. Did you have something else you want to say on item 4, publiccomments be good[inaudible / off mic]Tessa will be followed by veronica and followed by [inaudible] 2019-06-06t20:39:43. 9266304-04:00lullaby ruth roberts [inaudible].Basically, my public comment is that we are in a climate emergency climate crisis. And if you listen to greta ellenberg, she said, that we are selling their future but she is a 16-year-old climate activist who willhopefully win the nobel peace prize. Most are you have not recognized it or not pain attention be at shesays, there is a climate crisis and we need to declare a climate crisis did and everything that we do will behung on that. So we can do the radical changes that are necessary to reduce our fossil fuels 50% in the next 10 years did that is what we need to do. So, that is going to avoid a uninhabitable earth. That is what we are giving toward children. That is why they are protesting and saying, that we have sold their future down the line for money. And this is what the one issue, one of the biggest issues I find, is the bart from [inaudible] to santa clara needs to stop under a climate emergency under a climate emergency the federal funds that are being awarded to our county are not that is necessary. We have excellent transit between [inaudible] and santa clara. And this money should go to a another community that does not haveelectrified caltrans that we will have or if I 22 bus for the 22 bus or bike linesthat really need to be put on the alameda. So we have no transit like that could under a climate emergency, we need to be very frugal with our funds and this is a very bad planning. So, that is what we are saying about that and of course you will say we need the cleaning, the maintenance. No, we do not need a maintenance yard. We put a lot of estate funds into the maintenance yards [timer sounds]5:41 PMThank you. monica? followed by alexi.5:42 PMMy name is monica to rides I am a student at [inaudible] and a resident of santa clara and [inaudible] but Ijust want you to [inaudible] I went to the budget meeting on Thursday month ago and they had a greatdiscussion even though [inaudible] solutions for how you can improve transit services. So I really want to encourage you to take a look at the comments were that were made there and also the commentsubmitted under 8. 1. Like transit dependent writers I can put a [inaudible] I can have any hope to[inaudible] all I can do is make these comments and write letters. I really appreciate it. I have been to[inaudible] about [inaudible] and about 90% of the comments are [inaudible] do not come I bus and while we were able to say to roots in the next in the transit service plan, that was just a real allow reallocation of existing service dollars. There were no increases [inaudible] in the financial plan. So [inaudible] thank you.5:43 PMThank you very much alexis followed by bruce. Is bruce roberts here? Step forward, please. Followed byandrew brune. .I have a concern about the way access is allocated to those who need as opposed to the bus routes. Icurrently understand that if you 2019-06-06t20:43:57. 5445653-04:00 well currently, I run into thisproblem where I will, like I am drawn to film clubs or other events. But they started at 8 and and and 11.And t is passed the last time that the bus arrives. So I am stuck in a situation where I can get a ride I haveto take lyft. The same thing is true of santa clara. There have been times where I have gotten out of kaiser, past the last time the bus 81 is [inaudible] and then I am in a situation where I can get a ride I have to take lyft. So I am wondering why this service to kaiser santa clara is not as good as the service to kaiser santa teresa. Because many people go to santa clara instead of santa teresa. And I talked tosupervisor yeager about this and he agrees that the bus to kaiser santa clara and the issue of access for me is something that should be approved on. Thank you.5:45 PMThank you. andrew? this evening director. My name is endosperm I am a candidate for san jose district 6.Please vote if you are able to vote and him here to speak [inaudible] fund buses. Stop funding projects toexpand the highways, to increase the traffic capacity on highways. With new interchanges and adding lanes to highways and major roadways. That is a decades-old policy that this pga board of directors she put our taxpayer to dollars into more highways from work for our traffic instead of bus service. You have the money to reallocate some funds from capital projects. Some of those are highway projects 2 busservice right now. Even without touching measure b. Why measure b is 20% of all the revenue dedicated to projects to increase the traffic capacities of highways when we are in a climate emergency. . And that isanother think it is this agency in the county of santa clara and the city of san jose, I will need to declare that this is a climate emergency. You are going forward just on the more and more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere as if nothing is happening. As if the climate change is not real. That means you are climate the layers are climate deniers could you are denying that this is a sufficient problem that you can even fund bus service at an adequate level. I was shocked when this agency proposed in January to cut running bus 22 overnight. For 3 hours to have no transit service whatsoever in this county. That is shocking andappalling. Meanwhile, you are putting billions upon billions of taxpayer dollars into widening the highways and building new interchanges. Stop doing that and reallocate money to buy service. Thank you.5:47 PMThank you. is alexis here. If not, ms. Vieques. Alexis. OkaSo I would just like to update and see if anyone is interested in transferring type of money instead ofFebruary I heard they were whining the highways to avoid traffic but I was thinking [inaudible] youprobably got that already but in this talk, he was saying that the highways are supposed to work like[inaudible] and all those different things. Well if we are carrying around [inaudible] then we should also be focusing on trying to create some type of mini-catalyst within the city streets that could also help avoid traffic that could be built on top of a landing like a landing pad to be taken care of 1st. Because they are already [inaudible] put some type ofbaby like roller coaster 80. With a clear aluminum material and it could be like a tunnel similar to how elon musk is trying to go are going round. We could go over ground and make it a little bit cheaper and it could go multiple layers and will be a little bit slower. It would not but it could go like swirls. So then that way they could people could just drop off whatever they are trying to go in 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th street. So, do it that way. And, it could be paid for by people using it for sightseeing for travel purposes as well so people do not have to walk. Just want to throw that out there.5:50 PMThank you. ms. vieques.I just want to know [inaudible] this is not easy for me. But I felt the need to come here to implore you today to share my thoughts regarding vga. To whom it May concern, my name is shauna bakerand I work for the county of santa clara office of supportive housing the [inaudible] management program is since May 3 management program is since May 3, 2017. Ms. Vieques has [inaudible] free riding the bus. Due to a traumatic episode on the bus that makes it very difficult for her to travel [inaudible]. My next letter is from his vegas. To whom it May concern rose vegas currently is receiving treatment under my care at valley health center she is currently suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder which was [inaudible] at anevent that happened on the vta bus in December 2018 she is going to individual therapy to meet withstarting starting May 17, 2019. To whom it May concern, rose vegas was in my office today she isexpressing emotional trauma due to the event of the summer 10th of mental health defect in evaluating[inaudible]. . Now I have a [inaudible] in front of me dated dated December 10, 2018 code 7451. This is my evidence. If you will review this, you will see that as I was d boarding the bus, on this particular night [timer sounds] that this bus driver deliberately shut the doors on the, not once but twice and it is all in here. Now I receive this letter from vta saying that notice is hereby given a claim [inaudible] to the santa clara transportation authority board secretary on transportation authority board secretary on January 15,2019 was rejected on May 15, 2019. And I also have a [inaudible]5:52 PMMs. vieques,My understanding is that I was supposed to receive this which I have not. Under the [inaudible] sponsorbuildings of a driver it says he is supposed to [inaudible] incident report. I have never received that.Ms. viequesI want to know why to me this is a cover-up. I have spoken to joyce [inaudible] and she basically sheoffered me a few hundred dollars just to make us go away.5:53 PMOkay.[multiple voices]If you could please speak with ms. Perez. He will talk with youand get the information from you.One more thing is that when I spoke to peter he told me actually [inaudible / off mic]5:54 PM[inaudible / off mic]Is there any other member of the public that wishes to speak to the board on an item that is not on theagenda? Seeing none, we will move to item 5. We do not have any public hearings so we will now move toitem 6, committee reports. So item 6. 1 citizens advisory committee chair report will be provided by chair marty schulter.5:55 PMGood evening chair on o'neilvice chair shabbos and members of the board. I am artie chair of cac at ourMay 8, 2090 meeting the ccitizens advisory clinic conducted a public hearing thank you. Is a better now?Yes.All right. at our May 18 2019-06-06t20:55:30. 6983809-04:00 May 8, 2019 citizens watchdog committee hearing, we accepted comments from the public and conducted our public hearing and we will be gathering information and material and presenting publicly in various form as I communicated earlier. At thatmeeting, we also pointed for transitional members to vote on the cac - excuse me - until June 2021. Sinceour last committee meeting the chair, myself, secretary to the board elaine and staff liaison [inaudible]gonzalez we interviewed 6 applicants after reviewing 11 applications and we are forwarding 5 applicants tothe board tonight on your consent agenda. And I must say, [inaudible]. I was really impressed as was mycolleagues in doing the interviewing and that we had such qualified candidates interested in a publiccommittee. And as an interesting aside, all of them happened to be millennial's. Today we will be starting their appointment in august. Additionally, I will nominations committee and chair are proposing and on boarding program to assist new members. A chapter that is also in your packet. And that actually speaks to our desire to have a mentorship program more senior members working and co-partnering as buddies,however you call it, with new members so they get their feet wet and can be more effective with it in thecac. And I conclude my report. To5:57 PMThank you very much. much appreciate it. So next we have alternate board member pac glenn hendricks who provide the policy advisory committee report.Hello. my name is glenn cohen bikes lbb because you have a large meeting we met on the 9th. There is awrite up of what our notes are. I think the highlight for us is we recommended board of directors and approve the propose ingestion management workplan and budget for fiscal year 2020 and 2021. The June pac meeting has been canceled and we are making a decision whether not will have a July or not. Have a great meeting.5:58 PMThank you. living onto the next item in the interest of on the chairperson support for the standingcommittee and policy advisory board item 6. 3 and 6. 4 are in the reading folder under tab number 6 and these reports are also available in public binder. So that takes us to item 7 the consent agenda. The consent agenda items are 7. 1 through 7. 16. So we have some speakers. 1st of all, there any items that boar member wishes to pull from the consent calendar?5:59 PMI just record I recuse under section under section 84 3087. 9, 7. 11 and 7 point tensionOkay. thank you. member chandra lawless did you wish you to your just pointed me to him. Okay. So,i am not sure if these items should be poke at let us go to item o for 7. 3.Good evening, resident of [inaudible] among the applicants. Were the individuals that applied for cac but also [inaudible] and I am just simply here to access my support 2019-06-06t21:00:08. 4068915-04:00finals that did not make it cut based on the profiles. They appear t have the necessary experience[inaudible] tomb make informed decisions or help the board and bta as a whole to make [inaudible] and hopefully have a positive impact for our future of transportation and sauerkraut county and beyond. So I hope [inaudible] of 5 finalists forward. Thank you.6:00 PMThank you for applying an overview continue be engaged and be part of the process. Thank you very much. So next we have tests are to speak on items 7. 4, 7. 5 and 7. 7.6:01 PMDid you review with those are? I wrote little comments on the [inaudible][inaudible / off mic]Right. so I wanted to comment on that in regards to the fact that we are not doing a very good job ofproviding transit. We really need to electrify our transit he needs to be a lot more healthy to be on our streets and air quality is so bad in san jose, we are a community at risk. That just san jose but I think the santa clara county gets a f if you look at our air quality it has an f for our particular [inaudible] from the air. T lung association has looked at it. So we really need to really improve our transit system and we need to tax corporations so we can get money for that. And we need you guys to really look outside the box and to really make transit work in our community under climate emergency. You can do radical things. And I know it sounds radical to tax corporations but that is what we really need to do. That is where people are going into jobs. They need to subsidize it. And help us in our community to get a world-class transitsystem and a world-class bicycle infrastructure. And we do not have either of those. So, to say that youapprove your transit plan,, I beg to differ. And that we need to do a lot more good and we need to electrify our transit. And get money for that. And I know you will say we do not have them I could that is why I am saying, you need to go after the corporations and get them to make it and other developments, to make it a transit impact fee. We need that on on all div element as we can create a fund, create a world-class transit system and a world-class bicycle infrastructure. [inaudible / off mic]6:03 PMDid you wish to speak on 7. 5 which is about the 2018 conformance finding state congestion managementlegislationYes. the state congestion management is that we obviously have a very big problem with cars and we needto really ban cars. Under a climate emergency, if we look at that we have 10 years to reduce our fossil fuel use, fossil views that is gas, oil, and coal for those who do not know, and it is in our cars and our planes in our trains and or boats. So we need to stop that we need to stop and like [inaudible] it is very black and white. We have to stop burning fossil fuels. So, what it is, is that we have 10 years to reduce our fossil fuels by 50% in 10 years. To avoid a catastrophic irreversible climate change that means the tipping point when you go to the tipping point nature starts coming in. We, under the paris climate accords right now, we are they have agreed is a voluntary agreement and when a look at it the icc, which is theintergovernmental panel on climate change is the one that is telling us we have 10 years to reduce avoidcatastrophic irreversible climate change. And to have a habitable earth and that is what we are talkingabout. So, to leave it at 1. 5 is what we have to do and when my husband about it just says that mean is no cars, no planes, no flying, no driving personal vehicles, no delivery of goods. No jobs and no money. It is going back 800 years and that is what we have to start doing. So we really need you to look into that and to see how we can start to declare a climate emergency and start living a life that will hopefully avoid much more catastrophic impacts that would come under much more fossil fuel emissions. Okay. That isthat one. Next6:05 PM7.7, authorize adjournment or to submit federal fiscal year grant applications.Right. [inaudible] with [inaudible]. I do not really know that. I am saying that bart from what I understand and I May not know and appreciate you guys getting back to me to really explain how we are funding the bart extension from [inaudible] to santa clara. I like to really know that. From what I do know, is that it is a federal grant you applied for of 1. 6 billion. So I will repeat it again. Is that we do not need to do thatbecause we have so much service between those 2 points but it is only like, what a mile and half it you canwalk its. That is not the type of service that we need to be doing with climate emergency but when othercommunities can use that money because they do not have any transit to get them out of the cars. So we really need to not be only thinking about what I call the corporations and then of course the unions the one projected yes, we were here under measure b and all the units were so happy about the jobs. We gotenough in california california said enough jobs. And enough economic growth. We need to under climateemergency say, no, to a redundant resources coming from santa clara and have that go to communities that does not have transit to up those people get out of their cars like we all need to do.6:06 PMThank you.6:07 PM[inaudible / off mic]So, next for item 7.7 [inaudible] and you be followed by [inaudible].Good evening. I would like to [inaudible] table 1 on page 3 of item 7. 7. It shows a total of $24. 2 millionof [inaudible] and 20. 5 million [inaudible] resulting in a total of $17 million of local maturate these grants are supposed to be allocated to specific urban areas [inaudible] there are 2 such in santa clara county.[inaudible] these are approximate 90% formula funds going to [inaudible]. The 1st problem is section5307. The small [inaudible] can use these funds such as providing transportation to south county but the[inaudible] the 2nd problem is section 57 which are dedicated to [inaudible] as an example, these funds could be used to rehab [inaudible] to provide service to [inaudible] that every project is a light rail project even know there is no light rail in [inaudible] or morganville. This is been going on for nearly 2 decades and is a primary cause of massive congestion on the south side of cleric and say I tend to bring [inaudible] as soon as I receive the section 5227 from mpc for the last 15 years. Thank you.6:09 PMThank you. mason.[inaudible] I will make it short. --- all of them I think of a very specific theme which is the unsustainability.The 1st of the light rail intrusion. . The 2nd is transferred to of $16 million for the transit operating budget.The 3rd of the recommendations from the ad hoc committee and the 4th is the [inaudible] in the fastprogram. All of them I think create opportunity to increase sufficiency unsustainability for the agency for years but those are only possible with the full backing of the board members. I really hope that the board members will look at those 4 items properties to help bring about operating costs and service deliverycosts. Thank you.6:10 PMThank you much. not seen anybody else is there motion to approve the consent calendar?[inaudible / off mic] all those in favor say, aye. [chorus of ayes. ] any opposed say, nay. The motion passes. That takes us on to our regular agenda. And the 1st item on the regular agenda is to adopt a resolution approving the fiscal year 2020 and 2021 biennial budget for the period July 1, 2019 throughJune 30, 2021. The administration and finance committee reviewed and recommended adoption of the budget cheryl walking deputy director of finance budget and management will provide a brief presentation.6:11 PMThank you chair oh neil. the slide above is the total of the recommended fy 20 fy 21 budget. As you willrecall, these were reviewed at a board workshop on April 19. They were also presented at 3 community meetings and 3 advisory community meetings a summary of comments. For those means are included[inaudible] to the board's memo. These numbers are essentially exactly what was presented to represent in the proposed budget at the workshop. There is one minor update that I want to highlight. There is an increase in the congestion management program budget. $220,000 in fy 20 and 225,000 in fy 21. To fund staff services in support of the office of innovation. All other numbers represent exactly the presentation that we have given at the board workshop. One other thing I just want to point out is the clarification on the fy 20 [inaudible] the amount that is reflected in caltrain's budget that was present at their meeting thisone is a little over $20 million from bta. The amount that is currently reflected in the dj transit fund budgetis slightly under 16 million. . That roughly $4 million difference is additional funding that is under reviewfor measure b eligibility for these particular planning or study projects. One is the [inaudible] corridor ratecosting policy and the 2nd is the [inaudible] terminals planning policy. We will return to the board forapproval of the programming when appropriate on those items. So going back, these are the dollaramounts we are reflecting for approval for the fy 20 and fy 21 budget. I will be happy to answer any questions.6:13 PMAre there any questions from any board numbers? CouncilmemberThe major innovation [inaudible] corridor wide major innovation.My understanding the project is the planning and policy of the entire crossing for all of the caltrain lineups and just kind of a general just getting ahead of what needs to happen and what the planning processwould be. Kind of follows along with the caltrain's plan [inaudible]Thank you.Any other questions from the board? We will go to the memories of the public. [inaudible] [calling publiccomment cards. ]6:14 PMAgain, I just want to remind the board that the full cost of the labor package for the next few years are notincluded on the budget summary. Is likely there are going to be some changes very soon. I expect step up to come back some estimates. Thank you.Thank you. stefan?One thing I heard was that measure a, that there was funding that were supposed to a lot more [inaudible]under measure a. So that is a problem. And there is no really accountability for all these money you aregetting and I am just very unimpressed with bta overall when a deal with anybody on the phone. Here, even with bart your customer service person, you call her number. It says you each 408 whatever could never says you reach the customer service person who supposed to help with [inaudible] and all theissues. So that is a big problem. But getting back to the budget, in general, is that we, like a cigarette you need to get more funding. It is like you have to find other ways of funding are transit under climate emergency. You have to start doing things differently. And the fact that we spent $10 million to develop the work on el camino for the bus rapid transit, and then we just put it in the bag and said, fine. We needbj to be a leader in your valley transportation authority. Under climate emergency. When you are asked to solveour congestion problems and our greenhouse gases, the cities cannot say, no. We have to change the way we are engaged in the way we do things. We have to do things much different. And we need to do that at stevens creek. Get the bus rapid transit. And we are not doing that. And my son, is riding his bicycle there needs to be made safer so we can have appeared where it should be some cities a bike lanes on stevens creek and san carlos and some do not. It should have a bike lane continuous but we need that on all major roads. And you are not doing a good job of that could you not budget enough to do those jobs and tocreate the authority that you deserve under climate emergency to implement these changes that we need.[timer sounds]6:16 PMThank you monica graham. followed by eugene followed by [inaudible].My name is monica resident of [inaudible] really concern the budget under question is made no usefulprogress towards spending the current [inaudible] due to the 750 vehicles that were [inaudible] for most of my life has been cutting service [inaudible] instead, the exact opposite is happen. [inaudible] also, you May have given us [inaudible] I think we can have a great bus system and [inaudible] willing to invest in.[inaudible] the pros budget includes $250 million of highway expressway expressing budget. Theseprojects are extremely expensive and May not be [inaudible] due to induced demand. For example, budget [inaudible] this project would take $34 million over the next 2 years. [inaudible] so many people have told me that I am wasting my time coming here. I truly believe you can make the right choice. Change is [inaudible] work integrate a long-term plan to increase bus service is going to take courage. Ewald led theway on so many issues. In santa clara county be that is an you can lead the way on this issue. Thank you.6:18 PMThank you. eugene bradley. followed by andrew brown.Good evening borders. eugene bradley [inaudible] purse many of the speakers [inaudible] increase busservice. Back in 2000 we were all promised in addition to bart a 7 or 50 bus fleet by 2000 and that is not even close to that. In fact, bus is the same as it was back in the early 90s. Not very good when the countypopulation has increased 1. 9 million people since 2000 over 20% increase. I emailed the vca board especially councilmember tran accardo a [inaudible] describe and score capacity challenge. $7. 5 billion among several the big [inaudible] yet bta is supposed to be most populated is and even on the. I wonder why. Perhaps, when you completely abandon bus service slowly but surely since like 2000, [inaudible]nucor the bus service. That is what is going to get [inaudible] there is more people unfortunately there allstuck in their cars. And it surprising that bj expands highways [inaudible] and keep building highways that never worked anywhere. From 85 to even when a one interchange to the 101 lane in morgan hill. The btaappears to [inaudible] not fund its core bus system. Perhaps it should rename itself the very troubledadministration. Also I would have no pity if tomorrow donald trump decided to and bta. Not even he could top all this mess. It is past time bj change everything and prioritize [inaudible]. [timer sounds]6:20 PMThank you Mr. Bradley. andrew.My name is andrew bona mckinney for san jose city council districts of please note vote by March 3, 2020 if you are able to locate muscle and the leadership team of the silicon valley transit use and we have manymany years been lobbing this agency to make better decisions and to prioritize bus service. Instead of highway traffic capacity expansions and we unfortunately have failed. And we do not understand why the members of this board continue to prioritize increasing the capacity of our highways, increasing the number of highways interchanges that exist, they get built here in the south bay and set of funding buses.What is this agent because is is a highway expansion agency be that is how you act. That is her highest priority. [inaudible] you described a single product jack a single offramp for $55 million. We do not need it.We do not need it at all. And we do not need the other $2 billion in highway traffic capacity expansion.That this agency is planning that the city of san jose is planning the county of santa clara's passing andthat the metropolitan transportation commission is planning. We do not want express lanes but we do not want coal lanes for more cars on highway 85. We need to get rid of those projects. What we want is bus service. And I am hired tired of coming here every month saying the same thing again and again only havethis board ignore us. We will not be ignored anymore. In 2016 when you are crafting measure b this exactly the same message that the people came here with. We all asked for more bus service. Buses thatare practical buses that we can use. Buses that we need to live here in the south bay and what did you give us? 20% of residents go to highway traffic capacity expansion projects you can and must change that.You must the people 1st and that means putting [timer sounds] bus service 1st. Thank you.6:22 PMThank you andrew.>> [applause] [background noise]6:23 PM[gavel]Please,. thank you. seeing no other comments any comments from the board members? Is there a motion?Bsp was all those in favor say, aye. [chorus of ayes. ] any opposed say, nay. I do want to commend carolaustin for the tremendous job on the budgetand she is going to be retiring next week and we willtremendously miss her expertise and her professionalism and we wish you all the best in your retirement.>> [applause]Thank you are much.so the next item on our jen is item 8. 2 to adopt the calpers health contract withresolutions changing the designated pricing region the employer contribution from bay area to region 1.The postop recommendation is on your screen. The finance committee recommended approval of this item.[inaudible] is here to answer any questions that anyone has. There is a motion. Is there a 2nd?6:24 PMBsp was any other comments? all those in favor say, aye. [chorus of ayes. ] opposed? The motion passes.That takes us to item 8. 3. Staff recommendation is on the screen. A summary of the actions to approve the changes to the east bridge to bart regional connector capital especially light rail project to the followingaction get number 1, certify the final 2nd supplemental bar mental impact report sei r-2. Number 2, adoptfindings of fact in support of findings overwriting considers the mitigation [inaudible] number 3 I am in theproject at the scrub in the final [inauudible] deputy director rail facility and christina jaworski senior my mental planner will provide the presentation.6:25 PMGood afternoon. thank you for the opportunity to speak on this item. It is a mouthful. Hopefully we willclarify that for you. . 2 of have your I am going to walk us through the project and the changes andchristina is going to walk through the environmental components of the action. The item tonight this is your some background and context to understand what the request is. To help with that, we want to go through a little bit of the project history. Please, note, this has been an active project since 1992. There have been a series of board approvals for environmental documents. And there have been a series ofbudget related activities as well on the project. Most recently, the board directors staff to evaluate theimpacts of the project changes that we are reviewing tonight. It is important to recognize that this is anapproved project that has gone through a lifecycle that has several bar mental actions attached to it already. In May 2005, the initial project approval was provided. Including extension all the way to the ending. Then, in august 2007, following value engineering the project was approved with a documentapproved in 2007. The challenges for that economic downturn were, we phase the project is so phase theproject is so in 2010 we did and bar mental action to allow phasing. That work included the transit center[inaudible] pedestrian improvement along the especially do all that work is now complete since 2015. In March 2014, we had an action to remove the [inaudible] station and tonight we are talking about the 2ndsupplemental environmental document of the project that really does 3 things. It changes the geometry to improve the traffic condition there. It extends the light rail alignment for the entire corridor minute minimizes impacts that will cause traffic. So, to oriented with the approved project, right now the projectincludes a horizontal alignment. It includes an aerial guideway from capital avenue to story. Then it is atgrade [inaudible] than her maids [inaudible] so the horizontal alignment is areal [inaudible] at grade forthe 1st part and [inaudible the vertical alignment is the change we will be talking about in the next slideand the current lemon has an aerial guideway at one end of the job at capital avenue and an arrow[inaudible] at the end of the job at in the middle we are at grade and we will call the cunningham. The changes are to include an aerial guideway the entire corridor. What this does is, it is eliminates some of theproperty impacts at the current at grade portion of the project. It also includes the project does, some improve geometry in particular, 4 lanes are retained on the north end of the [inaudible] so there are significant benefits for traffic, lessening traffic impacts in this proposed change. Some photo simulations of the final product. This is with the guideway photo simulation looks like for what is already approved attotally and at the a story area but will be included for the rest of the corridor if the [inaudible] is certifiedtonight. So one of the things that the environmental document does is well there were changes regardingsome of the traffic information there are updates of traffic information. So what we did in this environment the document is took advantage of the enhanced design we had entered a more detailed analysis. And itincludes these criteria. That the traffic will have during construction 3 lanes in each direction. There will betimes when we will need to reduce the traffic down to one lane for construction for both the corridor itself and the equipment above the corridor. There are times when nighttime work is required. In order to provide public safety during construction. There are some significant detours I will happen at the intersection. So the traffic analysis in the supplemental environmental document includes all of this as input. Right of way a change in the bar mental document. The change from at grade 2 aerial reduces theimpact for property at position. As a matter fact, the number of acquisitions requested in the documenthas been not only has been reduced but it has been integrated in such way that with the [inaudible] thetraffic components of this intersection are improved and in operation away. The impacts from the originaldocument got minimize. And the document now outlines a reduction to only 35 [inaudible] most of them [inaudible] 3 o them, 2-3 of them are full acquisitions. The project schedule. . We are advancing theproject with a schedule that has, today the certification under consideration. Once approved and if that is approved, we will then finish design and spring of next year and at the beginning of property acquisitionand location begin this summer pending certification of the document. And it would be completed according to the dates showing on the slide we would begin physical construction for light rail May 2020 we will see physical work in the field for utilities in early 2020. A brief overview of the project funding. The project is funded with primarily [inaudible] measure a funds. 3 and $14 million of measure a funds. $100 million of lesional regional funds and then $9 million for sb-1 funds for a total proposed project amount of $453 million. So, with a brief overview, christina is going to walk us through the environmental documentcomponent.6:32 PMHello. can you hear me? thank you madam chair and thank you members of the board for the opportunityto share with you or provide you with an overview of the environmental process and the environment tillanalysis. As many of you know, or all of you know, are the major objectives of the environment and process is to provide you the decision-makers with information on the environmental effects of the project and to also disclose to the public the reasons for approving the project. If there are significant impacts. For this reason, vga prepared a 2nd supplemental environmental impact report which is the highest level ofenvironment till documentation that can be prepared for a project. The reasons for environmental impact report are, 1st, that there are a number of changes, major changes, and the proposed project for theapproved project and can win [inaudible] these include the changes in roadway geometry and change in from areal [inaudible]. Also, because of the passage of time, there have been changes in circumstances and new information that is acquired to update the environmental document. One of the major reasons why we preparean environmental impact report is that through the technical studies that were prepared insupport of the environment the document, we discovered that there are going to be new significant impacts and there are also can be an increase in severity than previous identified impacts. We also discovered 2 more detailed engineering and more advanced project development mitigation measures that we thought were possible in earlier iterations are no longer [inaudible]. So in terms of the my mentalmilestones, we begin the process by soliciting comments on the scope and content of the bar mentaldocument from the public and agencies. We held a scoping meeting in June 2018. We followed with the release of the draft supplemental environmental impact report. . This was issued on October 3. Was circulated for 45 days. And we also held a public meeting during this period. Most recently, on May 20, weissued the final 2nd supplemental environmental impact report and notified all the commenters of theavailability as well as our area and bar mental mailing list and other communication channels. And here we are today at the vj board of directors meeting where you will be considering approval of the proposedchanges. I wanted to highlight that we did conduct extensive community engagement as part of the environmental process that community engagement is ongoing we have over 9000 mailers within a half-mile of the corridor and sent them in multiple languages. We advertised in multiple newspapers in differentlanguages as well. And sent it out to next door. Stakeholder list. Boards, policy advisory committees, andalso went door to door to businesses along the corridor. We held public meetings, which I mentioned already on June 14 and October 18. So in the environmental document we identify a number of significant and unavoidable impacts. These impacts are both permanent and are associated with the operation of the project and some of them are temporary and associated with the construction of the project. The areaswhere these impacts were identified are in areas of transportation in the ways, vibration, air quality andenvironmental justice. Beginning with transportation, we identified a new significant and unavoidableimpact in traffic and congestion at soy road an increase in severity in the previous identified impact at mccullough avenue. These impactsare a result of the removal of 2 high occupancy vehicle lanes were carpool lanes part of the project. Actual feature has been part of the project since its inception. The reason for this new an increase in severity of the previously identified impact is because we have new information.We did more recen traffic count. We had an increase in the opening year changes in the opening year and future year which resulted in the disclosure of this new increase in severity of previously impactedidentified impact as can mention the [inaudible] part of his presentation we done more engineering, moreproject of elements and it has given us a better understanding of what construction impacts there will be 2traffic that we have a better understanding of the types of lane closures that will be required and thatthere will be full intersection closures will also be needed during construction. And as a result we disclose us as a new significant and unavoidable impact. This slide illustrates the nature of the new impact 2 traffic at [inaudible] and a color and traffic corridor. As you can see, the travel time with a project manager without the project goes up quite significantly. That you can also see thatthe light rail provides a verycompetitive alternative even compared to the travel time without the project. Next, the environment tolddocument also identifies a permanent operational vibration impact. The federal transit administration has to vibration impact criteria. One is for daytime and one is for nighttime. The environment told document identifies that there would be a nighttime vibration impact between the hours of 10 pm and 7 am isimportant to note that vga operates very limited and also no service duringsome of these hours but duringthe hours of 6 and 7 we do operate peaks period service but we identified a number of potential mitigationmeasures for this impact. The 1st is called higher drive advocate otherwise known as a shredded tire. Welook at this along the corridor and it was totally effective in reducing the vibration impact at one location and we are recommending that it be included in the project. The other mitigation measure that was identified is called floating my tracks. This is basically a fixed layer of concrete under the beds that helps absorb these vibrations. This particular mitigation measure is very common in grade applications but it isvery rare on an aerial structure in fact the vibration [inaudible] was only aware of one instance where thishas been used and in hong kong and we do not have a lot of data on how effective it actually is in reducingthe vibration. In addition, floating club tracks on an aerial structure can probably go into a lot more detailpresents a lot of complexity in terms of the structural design of the aerial [inaudible] as was the trafficdesign. Because of the additional weight it requiresthicker columns but it requires a bigger footing. It also[inaudible] the construction. As a result for these reasons the pga does not believe floating my tracks is a feasible 2019-06-06t21:41:25. 2279264-04:00 mitigation measure and is not recommending it. The nextirrigation measure that was identified is called a bridge there bridge isolation system this is basically a series of [inaudible] underneath the track and helps absorb the vibration. This has this is also not verycommonlyused mitigation on aerial structure be our vibration [inaudible] is aware of one instance used in miami for rail and there is not a lot of data supporting how effective it is actually reducing that vibration. .In addition it also provides complexities in the construction and design. And for these reasons vga does not believe this mitigation measure is feasible and we are not recommending it. The last mitigation measure that was identified for vibration is reducing the feet. As you know, one of the primary reasons for one of the primary objectives for this project is to redu the [inaudible] to increase the train feet as much as possible, reduce travel time and be competitive with the automobile. By reducing train speed and what isrecommended below 35 mph during 2019-06-06t21:42:52. 3470073-04:00 [inaudible] we believe thisundermines the purpose of the project and therefore vga is not recommending. Since there are 66 [inaudible] that will continue to be affected by operational vibration levels that are in excess of [inaudible]thresholds, this impact has been determined to significantly be unavoidable. Moving on, this picture is meant to illustrate that in order to construct the aerial structure there will be a lot of power driving and is probably all you know piledriving is very loud and creates a lot of vibration. We did identify what the document did identify both construction vibration and construction noise impact. . We were able to mitigateall the construction noise impact with cushions, noise shield around the piledriver and tempering noisebarriers but we were not able to reduce the construction vibration impact. So [inaudible] has a damagecriteria at 0. 2 peak particle velocity for construction vibration. This a very conservative threshold andbasically, indicates for certain structures, this is when you could potentially see structural damage. Terms of the building types along this corridor, we would not expect structural damage at this level we would see it at much higher levels. The most we are anticipating is cosmetic damage but in order to determine whether there is any damage [inaudible] is proposing to do pre--and post-construction surveys of the property that have been identified as impacted and if there is any impact cosmetic, structural, we willrestore it to preconstruction conditions . The document did identify a mitigation measure that [inaudible] all the impacts from construction vibration. It is called non-impact piling method. This particular method ofdriving piles or drilling piles, was said to have a very large footprint and would involve a lot of trade-offs.1st trade-off is that would have much more of your construction traffic impact and the other impact is that it would take a lot more time to do. And we might have to do it at night. To avoid the traffic impact. So, as a result of these trade-offs, vga does not [inaudible] not impact piledriving is feasible at most locations.The only exception is that capital avenue and capital expressway, where it does not involve within the meeting of the roadway and can be done without those same impacts. It also just happens to help the most severely impacted property that were closest with a piledriving would occur. Because vga does not believe impact piledriving is feasible and is not recommended, 56 ohms would still be above the ftadamage charger and therefore this impact is considered significant and unavoidable. The next impact in lieu of impact. It something we were not requiredto look at previous documents. This is cumulative air quality impact during construction. And the reason why we identified [inaudible] of the spitzer threshold is that in certain parts of the corridor because there is already exposed to a lot of vehicular traffic, primarily from capital expressway and the major cross streets, there are particular locations where the level of certain pollutants are already exceeding the bay area air quality management district levels. And this is primarily particulate matter, very small particulate matter. Because even though epa is including contractspecifications that the construction equipment use adhere to advance emissions controls, where feasible, we cannot completely eliminate emissions. . And as a result of the small increases in emissions we have identified a significant and unavoidable impact. Last, but not least, the document also identifies significant and unavoidable impact to environmental justice. The corridor is surrounded by sensitive plots that 1st of all all the census tracts meet the criteria for a minority population. All of them have minority populations that are larger than san jose the county of santa clara as a whole and. In addition there is a number of census tracts that also meet the low income criteria. Because this project does have significant andunavoidable impacts to noise and vibration, and to air quality, we have identified a significant andunavoidable environmental impact. I wanted to conclude my presentation by sharing with you some of thepublic comments we received on the draft sei are-2. We received comments from both public agencies and the public. We, the city and the county both provided substantive common letters. They expressed concern about construction impact, access and design. Parking. Noise and vibration. The county expressed concerns about traffic and construction and the need for exhaustive public outreach. The public requested sound walls to be included in the project. They expressed concerns about construction disruption andsafety and they also indicated concerns about the negative effects of the aerial structure on views andproperty values. I did want to mention that he worked very extensively the city and county to discuss theircomments and we have incorporated some of those comments in the revisions to the document. And in closing, I wanted to mention that the proposed changes to the project will have significant and unavoidable impacts but it is up to you the board of directors, to decide whether the benefits of the project outweigh the significant and unavoidable environmental impacts. It is also up to you, the board of directors, to make a finding, statement of overriding consideration that economic legal commercial ecological or other considerations make it feasible various mitigation measures. So in terms of the recommended board actiontoday, we are asking recommending they certify the final sei r-2, adopt findings, statement of overridingconsiderations and adopt a mitigation monitoring and reporting program and that you also amend theapproved project.6:51 PMThank you are much for the report. Vice chair chavezI know we have public speakers and maybe want to comments and questions my colleagues but without knowing how deep those are, what I want to do is go ahead and move item 8. 3 so the public knows what they are speaking to be so the motion on the floor would be to certify the final supplemental environmentalimpact report to adopt findings of fact support overriding's considerations and mitigation monitoring andreporting program and to amend the project as described in the final sei r-2. So thank you for that but what I like to have us do is if there are questions on board members, questions only to ask those questions of staff and then we will go to the public to hear from many members of the public that wishes to speak on this item and then we will come back and have comments from board members. Then, a vote. I think -- itlooks like we are about 20 commenters. So we will go ahead. Before we do that are there questions from board members? Mr. Rennie6:52 PMThank you. 1st, although it May not sound relevant can I want to ask the question to get the informationout for the speakers. Last time, last board meeting in public comment we had at least 6-7 speakers we should approve this project because loss [inaudible] already had light rail. Could you give a quick update on the status of the light rail to lowe's [inaudible] I currently lived in the living downtown nurse station is 4. 5 miles from me.6:53 PMMdm. chair, if we May provide information that addresses Mr. Rennie's question the individuals presenting are not involved with [inaudible] so they can provide you a technical assistance much less in environmental[inaudible]Okay. so there is no answer at all to that? I do not need a dee technical. I mean does the light rail go to ?Some he should be able to answer that.No. the existing light rail does not go toIs a plan to go to [inaudible]6:54 PMThere is an item to a there is a project approved as you May know in the measure in the measure a 2004and extension to the [inaudible] lineAnd is vta staff recommending that project go forward at this time?This project is not on th agenda for the recommendation at this meeting.[inaudible / off mic]Okay. well I will take the very little but answer that I got. I have a couple of other questions on the eir if it is all right with the chair to go that direction? So my 1st question was, you talked about comment from thepublic and other agencies and what I did not hear from the public were comments concerns, about thelosing of the 2 lanes and capital and the worst traffic. Were there any comments of that nature? I think I heard about vibration and construction but in the final operationwere there concerns about additional traffic?6:55 PMThere were definitely concerns about down to 2 lanesFrom the public?Mostly from the agenciesBut not from the community that this is going to be in?No.Okay. the 2nd question on the eir. It does not look like the you evaluated an alternative which could be a transit option on the guideway that did not have rail. A lot of your mitigation attempts were aroundvibration. If you have something that was on tires instead of on rail, would that be less of a vibrationissue? Would it be lighter or maybe the rubber would be a ddifferent than on rail? I realize that it was notevaluated, but have you thought about that?6:56 PMYou know, it is hard to speculate whether a rubber tire system would have less vibration than a rail. Just the light rail.Okay. thank you. that was my question for now.Mr. Carrasco you are trying to turn your light on?Yes. have a couple of questions on this. On the environmental justice, I know there is a lot of concern that the lower economics are going to be effected if the project did not go through. And here, it states therewould be a impact on that. When you were doing your overview you were talking about [inaudible] wastraffic also going to be made worse?Traffic would also be made worse by this project. But because the traffic not only affectsimmediatecommunity but it affects other populations as well, this is and consider disproportionately high and adverse impact to the environmental justice community.6:57 PMBut in chapter 5, the very last line says I will get to that in a 2nd. On page 71 you have a [inaudible] andso I get the net new riders in 2023 will be 611. Is that an accurate statement?ThatThat is correct. that is the net transit riders.Right. and 2043 the net new riders would be 1300? Net new riders, transit riders?I believe that is correct but I have to [inaudible]6:58 PMOkay. to those numbers meet the transit sustainability policies?No. they do not.Going back to know project is considered at all. I mean there was quite a few of statements of significant impact and unavoidable. If there was no new project obviously with the be any more environmentalimpacts as things progress?So you are asking if there is no newProject alternative?[inaudible]Yes.With there be some otherSomething that affects and bar mental justice. Is that a fair question? The term is fairly new to me so notsure I understand your if there was no new project alternative for and bar mental justice change becausetransit would be [inaudible] along those lines.6:59 PMI am afraid I do not know the answer that question.Okay. then, you had your diagram, slide 19. This might be more along the environmental justice lines. Sothe red line would be thank you. So the red line is the light rail going through and yet for those who took the light rail there be a quicker time but for the rest of the population which, if I am correct, the majority,it almost doubles their time in traffic?7:00 PMThat is correct. under the a. M. Travel time the peak direction which is the northbound direction to go from 6 minutes, approximately 6 minutes to over 11 minutes with a project. In the p. M. Peak direction which isthe southbound, it would go from6 minutes and 39 seconds with no project to 10 minutes and 29 seconds with a project.I know this May not be under the scope of the eir, but is this the problem we are trying to identify? This new project? Or, do we have overriding considerations that mightWell, the project did not identify a significant unavoidable impact to traffic.7:01 PMOkay. was my questions for now. Thank you.Member carr.Just quick clarification you reopen to ask questions about the whole presentation or just the motion beforeus?The presentation.Okay. or just the motion before us?The presentation.Okay. would traffic and impacts along the 101 analyzed at all?We only look at traffic along the capital corridorOkay. thank you. when we reviewed this before the of initiation finance committee, when we talked aboutthe project basically the motion is the same basically that we approve but we talked about it was not to gointo construction based upon what we had approved. Is that the direction that the motion is taking? I do not know if that is the same question as Mr. Shabbos it is that the direction the motion is taking now the way that we try to characterize it in have been shaken finance?7:02 PMThe motion tonight is to take an existing project that did identify all of these impacts that have not beenupdated with information, to provide approval of the overriding considerations for the impact and toapprove the project as defined. The schedule that was provided is the schedule let us provided is this thestaff scheduledfor construction of what that would mean for us is would begin property acquisition we willbegin utility location and we would be posturing to begin construction delay 2020 with this project. So wewould be ready for that. Yes.Would you normally come back to the board before you begin?Yes. so the construction work would need board approval and so certainly that we need to be an actionwhere the board would approve the construction award before any concession project for the light rail proper work for light rail would begin.7:03 PMThank you, ken. under the 2nd line there, complete design, design for this sei art which is a light railproject [inaudible]Correct. so the schedule is such that we are now in final engine and we finish that engineering by spring ofnext year and then we would be complete with engineering earlier than the right of way would allow us to begin construction. So there would be a time early was still be doing utility location and propertyacquisition and then we would they would be clear to advertise an award construction which is why there is months and months and months of activity.7:04 PMThank you. I appreciate it.Okay. no other board numbers have questions, have a few questions. . . So one of the things I am a littleconfused about when I was reading in the statement of overriding consideration from mmr a p in 4. 1, Ithink [inaudible] pardon my ignorance on this. I want to make sure I understood when you said the project is estimated to have a daily ridership of approximate 4500 boarding and 2043 with a project as opposed to a proximally 2300 boarding without project it does that mean the existing light rail lines would have 23002019-06-06t22:04:44. 5816501-04:00 boarding and so that if we I am trying to recognize reconcile liquor1300 net ridership is the 204 just to make sure I am understanding what is happening. Because when I read that paragraph to me, I am thinking to something that by extent the extension to be sprayed wewould be getting the additional 2200 boarding?7:05 PMWe would get 2200 new boarding, yes with a project. These numbers are for the segment between[inaudible] station which is [inaudible] to east bridge. So the 2300 boarding I the ridership at [inaudible].Okay. so we currently have 2200 people fighting at the end of line and if we extended we get it another 2300.Correct.Okay. so one of the things, too, I was looking at we have had a lot of comments tonight. As we dofrequently. And I am [inaudible] folks wanting to get people out of cars and car-center. The unavoidable impacts on the traffic it so when we look at the car volume and the impacts from congest by taking out the hov lane, is part of that analysis to figure out ho much of that is offset by increased ridership on the light rail line?7:06 PM[inaudible]So we are still going to have worse traffic with a light rail line open without many more people writing thelight rail?Yes. 2 lanes does reduce capacity significantly.Okay. thank you. my other question has to do with keeping a little bit with a conversation that membercarr and I hadat the ministration finance meeting. As member liccardo and I had [inaudible] alternativetechnology and there is the comment made about 2019-06-06t22:07:06. 9889140-04:00 [inaudible] vehicles and were talking be able to use the llight rail guideway. So once you get to that that analysis is going to happen, but is it still do I still have the correct impression that if we wanted to because we will have to at some point in the future probably replace all of our existing light rail rolling stock. Go to some new technology that might be out there that would be quieter, less vibration and all of that. Is it impossible that evaluation can be donebefore would be scheduled to start the actual construction of this track?7:07 PMI believe that, mdm. chair, I believe that is actually possible because we are not to be building if you look at the schedule, the actual once this board had decides to approve the supplemental bar mental impact reports, then the 1st order of business is to complete the design and then the next thing will be therelocation and then probably acquisition. That takes many months. We will be bringing a study to the capitaprogram committee on the future technology. So that will be the committee that will be hearing the technology assessment. That will then impact the entire [inaudible]7:08 PMOkay. thank you. [inaudible / off mic] okay. Vice chair shabbosThank you. just a couple of questions. One is, and maybe just one reminder for my colleagues that Icannot remember what [inaudible] so there is many become so I apologize to my colleagues for this but Iunderstand as part of what were doing at the [inaudible] arena station were also looking at the light railalignment in the city center. Is that accurate? That is accurate. Okay. The reason I am mentioning that is I think you might all remember that we already have us study going on about how to make light rail faster all over. And one of the ways I think we will have to do that is really take a look at how we get todowntown san jose because of the little bit of a [inaudible] and getting back on. So anyway, I am glad wewill take a look at that and how we are looking at the technology. 2nd, with the ridership numbers that we are using today, those ridership numbers are based on the current development that exist today. It does not include could potentially happen with the 100 acres at [inaudible] with each 100 acre at ease? Is that accurate?7:09 PM[inaudible / off mic]Along the capital element my recollection to you May know the answer to the we have a number ofintersections there that already [inaudible] is that accurate?7:10 PMYes. it isOkay. part of the reason I raise that, I know that the city and county of had discussions about the future ofcapital expressway. Ironically, one of the discussions we were having close traffic down on that road in part in part because of speed and safety and in part because the city at the time that I talked to jim that wewere looking making it something that was a little maintain part of the expressway quality but also a littlemore along the lines of a boulevard.Urban vallarta.Okay. thank you I want to make sure that correct. Thank you.Okay. so if there is no more board questions at this point we are going to go to the members of the public.[calling public comment cards. ]7:11 PMGood evening chair and members of the board. My name is [inaudible] I came tonight. We are bettertogether and there is a great example of the work we are doing right now. For those of us who have invested 21 years to get to this point it is a very exciting moment and on behalf of the leadership group [inaudible] move this forward. I want to signal out a few folks in my 1 minute and 24 seconds left. To davecortez for your leadership on this and ensuring that $130 million [inaudible] was included to mayor ricardo,supervisor chavez for being in there and 2000 measure a and 2016 regional budget campaign. To make sure that [inaudible] $150 million investment was included and [inaudible] any other old folks [inaudible]my apologies to you. I wish mayor ron gonzales was here. To be here and celebrate this historic moment ofmoving this forward [inaudible] so, thank you again for this tremendous step forward in great work by yourprofessional staff as well. We stand with you. We look forward to that opening in earlier 2025.7:13 PMThank you. councilmemberGood evening board. I am here on behalf of my community. As you well know, [inaudible] is in my district.It is one of the heaviest and busiest transit centers. So it makes a lot of sense for this project to move on.So I ask you to approve the motion on the floor. To approve the supplemental eir. This will allow for thispiece of the light rail to be faster so more profitable. And to be safer really for all of our community. We have been waiting for this for a really long time. We have heard carl and I think some others have mentioned, 20 years in the making. So I want to thank all those folkswho carl already mentioned. Thankyou for making this possible side but the work is not done. Until this vote is concluded. So I ask you toplease, support the motion on the floor. We need to bring a little justice to the community and it has beendelayed for 20 years and justice delayed is justice denied. So I want to remind you that we have also paid our portion of this investment in other cities like campbell and mountain view. So I just want to end with something for the board members who represent cities in the north part of the county. And I would like for them to just ponder aboutyou want to see evergreen residents and eastside residents the commuter drive through your cities and really plug up that 101. We want them to take light rail from east bridge andactually be more productive. Thank you.7:14 PMThank you. we have matt savage followed by Mr. Followed by steve bennett followed by [inaudible]escalante. Good evening.7:15 PMThank you bj borders my name is matt savage. I live my whole life in [inaudible] county. 20 years ago when the measure was passed I was [inaudible] fortunate enough to live near a right rail station. After Igraduated from college I lived in downtown near a light rail station. I live in sunnyvale near a light railstation and now I list live in west san jose near a light rail station. I think it is a board to our committeesthat there [inaudible] the residence of the side and evergreen have been waiting 20 years or longer for this I thinkthat they deserve a chance to be able to finally get this project. Thank you.Thank you. Mr.Good evening my name is [inaudible] sharma. The headline from the mercury newspaper of May 17 weeds[inaudible] plans hotels shops and jobs. This massive project is expected to bring25,000 jobs to thenorthern part of the county. This project is typical of the [inaudible] in the county over the past 60 years.Jobs the north and west houses in the south and east. This is lopsided pattern of development has left the eastern part of the county impoverished and underdeveloped. And it has resulted in traffic congestion on highways 101 and 280. The county needs the light rail extension in east bridge in order to reduce trafficcongestion and to bring jobs to the east san jose. Without the light rail extension the vga will not be able to fulfill its and 8 to provide adequate transportation and infrastructure for the county. I urge the board toapprove the light rail extension 2 e. Bridge. Thank you.7:17 PMThank you. steve bennett followed by [inaudible] escalante followed by [inaudible].My name is steve bennett. one point about those roads are a lot smaller and the impact on the traffic there on our side of town. It seems like we voted for this project at the turn-of-the-century. . Last time I spokeon these chambers was 2011 or 12 and the board agreed to do this light rail extension to eastridge. Theproject was supposed to be completed in 2016. I have been told that the money was taken and given to the bart statio in [inaudible]. This is hard for me to understand. The problem with bart is that the bart benefits good people of the spate more than it does the people of the south bay. What upsets the voters is that we vote for a project. We pay the taxes. Then the money disappears and the project disappears. Why should we vote for new taxes if the money is not used for what we vote for? We would like to see thisproject completed. Thank you for your time.7:18 PMThank you. so if the speakers could line up so we could move a little faster. [inaudible] escalante[inaudible] [calling public comment cards. ]7:19 PMGood evening. laura my name is laura neighborhood association near east ridge mall. And this light rail project is something our community has been waiting on. For 2 decades but being more here than once, you can seem very passionate about this project. This connection, might seem small to some people it is crucial to's those of us on the east side get the residence in my neighbors have helped to build this city and they deserve the dignity of access to silicon valley eastridge light rail extension. I am grateful to the board members that have expressed support for this project and I hope that the rest of you can see that our passion and getting this project completed. So I ask that you hopefully join in continuing this eastridge light rail project without delay. Thank you.7:21 PMThank you. sander?7:22 PM>> [native language]My name is [inaudible] and I am here to on behalf of all the residence that need the bta light rail to's forthe project. Today, a lot of us are able to walk, to drive, but tomorrow who knows what could happen. Ahealth issue or you grow older and you are not able to drive anymore and get around as easily. There is a lot of dumb people in our community that are not able to drive that need to get around town for school, college, work, etc. We really need this project move forward and have access to light rail. Thank you.[timer sounds]Thank you very much. [calling public comment cards. ]We urge the board to support the supplemental eir including the proposed changes that include gradeseparation in the aerial guideway that is going to improve efficiency as well as an attractive ridershipproposition be I just want to put this into context of measure a child was born in November 2000 when this was 1st passed. There now old enough to vote. They are old enough to go to war. There old enough to smoke in a couple of years old enough to drink they still would not be able to get from eastridge to[inaudible] on train.7:23 PMThank you. so we have [inaudible] [calling public comment cards. ]Good evening. I will want to remind the board that in November 2000 the voters in santa clara countyapproved measure a. It passed by 70. 3% majority vote. That is 70. 3. Measure a will extend light rail downtown san jose to join the capital light rail line to south to eastridge shopping center the project itself is called the capital expressway light rail. There is no ambiguity. I find it alarming there is talk of abandoning the light rail for public transportation. It is admirable the board is looking for ways to increase efficiencies throughout the system should not come at the expense of the capital expressway light railproject. With construction due to certain next year changing trucks now is too late. Elaine this project would only increase costs and deepen the divide between eastside and the rest of san jose. And in response to boar board member renny wiebe waiting specific for a will for more than 20 years and[inaudible] 13 already. Light rail is what we promised and that is what we voted for. And in response toboard member mcallister, the small uptick in transit uterus will add to the very large number of existing users. As you, east transit center is already one of the busiest transit hubs in the county. And I am for the board to continue improving the capital light rail project. Thank you.7:25 PMThank you. [calling public comment cards. ][inaudible] I am here to speak on behalf of the [inaudible]. If you talk about just as I think about time.People in eastern part of the valley have passed these bond measures, the funds that you have, atincredibly high rates. It is about time that folks get what they deserve. Which is a system of transportation make sense. You have something that goes up to about there and get off the bus and get off the train and go out of catch another couple buses. One gentleman who works at [inaudible] was telling me I liverelatively close. This is not within walking to somebody is to take 2 buses and the train and then get to her.He is from east san jose. And would make use of this light rail station I will serve him as well as the otherpeople in you san jose. To Mr. Rennie's comments on their behalf I apologize. They are not like my mama.My mom knows bta very well. She used to go home and [inaudible] much like a lot of other people from east san jose to make a trip every morning and for whom? Light rail for home life and to be able to provide [inaudible] I was able to grow up and live because bta gave an opportunity for her to get to work it so that I would ask that you move forward, prove this 12 folks continue on and be able to make a living for their families and not have to spend inordinate amount of time getting to and from work. Appreciate yoursupport.7:27 PMThank you. councilmember [inaudible]. Mr. Garcia. welcome.Good evening [inaudible] residents for responsible development and I want to thank you for let me speakbefore you tonight. I am asking you to please support the motion. Carl are you still here? I remember I campaigned for this measure many years ago and so I am happy that finally coming to [inaudible] I remember getting a phone call from [inaudible] and we did many things for the campaign but [inaudible] can you get a lot of your memories to go to [inaudible] around capital and we did. At every [inaudible] and we were complaining very hard so that the community 2019-06-06t22:28:00. 7987745-04:00 [inaudible] 20 years ago. I time I guess to put a shovel in the ground and hope you can support it. Thank you verymuch.7:28 PMThank you get we have christina rosales followed by ernesto followed by [inaudible] followed by rolandchristina rosales? okay. Ernesto?Good evening. my name is ernesto [inaudible] I agree with [inaudible] my only concern is 2019-06-06t22:28:48. 2459084-04:00 [inaudible] it is 2. 5 miles south because [inaudible] and I am pretty sure we need one-stop right there on ocala. A lot of schools are there. People are [inaudible] 2019-06-06t22:29:10. 6679595-04:00 there is no room room right there I am pretty sure they do not have to2019-06-06t22:29:18. 8421050-04:00 [inaudible] because there is a lot of land right there next to[inaudible]. There is a lot of land right there they can [inaudible]. My other concern is about [inaudible] anytime when I ask they do not hear anything about that. [inaudible] before they give you the okay I am pretty sure [inaudible] thank you.7:30 PMOkay. so we have [inaudible] [calling public comment cards. ]Good evening chair and board. My name is and I am [inaudible] I am here to support this project on behalf of [inaudible] as yo know he had sent a letter to the board last month advocating for the project to becomplete to be approved and we would like to see it is being move forward and thank you to the staff forthe great work to have this project approved. As you already but his project has been in the pipeline forover 20 years. There have been some delays. I believe in this project and move forward with this project.2019-06-06t22:30:48. 0974743-04:00 [inaudible] it is a great essential collection for [inaudible] and[inaudible]'s own behalf of sender virtue I asked the board to approve this project and move forward with this project. Thank you.7:31 PMThank you.Good evening. there seems to be a lot of [inaudible] on the project and I am certainly not against it but Iwould like to make one more contribution to help you get to a better outcome. Could you go back to slide 22, please? So there was this comment about piledriving methods how they leave a footprint. [inaudible]but I am talking about is this. 2019-06-06t22:32:01. 6039506-04:00 [inaudible] if you go to [inaudible] it is a japanese invention and you drive them the way you [inaudible] and then there is approve machine that clamps [inaudible] and then pushes it down. . Totally and silent. [inaudible] right in front of the stockexchange. [inaudible] in the middle of trading. I explained this before and now here we go again. The other thing I want to talk to you about if you go back to slide number 1, [inaudible] the reason we are [inaudible] slide 1 a [inaudible] look at this. If you have a narrow [inaudible] and then when you get to theplatform 300 feet [inaudible] [timer sounds] and the footprint would be so much smaller and you talking about saving hundreds of millions of dollars. Thank you.7:33 PMThank you. israel marquez. can?A quick reminder I want to direct your attention to a couple of slides put context on some of the questions.Tonight to the supplemental environment document is an existing project get that existing project does have already actions that identified the station, sustainability in the alignment and all those elements. Just want to put in contextthat tonight's action is really about approving changes that minimize impact to the approved project.7:34 PMOkay. thank you. hugo.Good afternoon my name is hugo montes and I have gone up all my life any side san jose I am speaking to the board today in hopes to improve the entire mental report. Since the airport is district will be taken down it will open up the possibility of bringing either businesses or housing to that area. The possible light rail would be. So with that, not many people are able to drive were carpal. So they have to rely on other transportation which is why, as many people stated before me, it is important we bring the light rail. I believe that approving the entire mental report will take us a step further to that. Also, residence have been waiting for this light rail for longer than I have existed. I am 17 years old please follow the will of thevoters. Thank you.7:35 PMThank you. tessa?Okay. I am supportive of light rail and I am happy that it has been extended to east bridge. I guess themain issue well I think it also needs to go to [inaudible] it was supposed to go to if you have ever taken the light rail, it is stops there at campbell. No. It stops at winchester. Winchester station but you can see the tracks [inaudible] and they really need to. But anyway, getting back to the real we do not have any concerns about these non-mitigated issues that cannot be mitigated . The noise in the vibration it is very mucha concern. Especially, as we go into building the [inaudible] in our neighborhood and the lack ofresponsiveness to noise issues that have come up into our neighborhood that we live on stockton avenue.And there is no response and no real good communication from the vga and the way they are handling ourneighborhood kid and one of the issues I said in the eir of the bart is that we wanted what I call a broadband backup on all devices dealt with construction of the [inaudible] so when the trucks come and things like that that commences like this wish you is can happen when there is so much impact in thiscommunity. It is very concerning and we at least need to have with a call a good neighbor backup which when they built like at stamford when they were extending things, they demanded that they use abroad in backup beeper these are the backup beepers they use around the world that are safe and you are head of your vga can [inaudible] whatever name is community outreach. She said, they are not safe. I said what you mean they are not safe? Semi the documents that she never did some of the documents. And the thing is, these do meet all the criteria of a osha and things like that [timer sounds] so anyway, noisemitigation is very important7:37 PMOkay. thank you is there anybody else that wishes to speak on this item? I think, as a point of privilege toformer board member councilmember arendt has, did he ask you to speak on his behalf?I will keep comments short. unlike other comes. [inaudible][laughing]Do not get that on record. it is already on record. I caught him as it was coming in and he was leaving and he just asked me to please, can they, relate to you that he supportive of the project moving forward.Thank you.7:38 PMBe much. okay. so are th Mr. Director mcallister would you like to begin the comments? [inaudible / offmic][inaudible]My name is rosella [inaudible] I am still waiting for it to start. I really hope it passes I am disappointed I do not have an ocala station. I am disappointed that up building an effective [inaudible] to all the people in our communities. I do hope they realize there is number of tools, private schools and when they do theconstruction I hope they take into consideration about the kids in safe to cross a pedestrian crosswalkbecause once construction be able to let them go safely across the street and I just hope it passes because we deserve it. Okay?7:39 PMThank you.[inaudible / off mic]My name is christina rosales. This the 1st time here so. I am supportive of this. I have been waiting 20years for this as well. So I do hope that you do consider passing or having light rail coming to our community. I am a little disappointed in the vga during their community outreach but I do think they did a very good job. I do not ever remember receiving any kind of mail and I have lived at that residence for 30years. So, I do another thing is I am also disappointed that there was not an ocala and capital stock. .There are 8 schools just down the ocala avenue that I think the kids would probably most likely take thelight rail if there was a stop there. So I am disappointed about that. And again, I do hope that you still contin to bring light rail to east san jose. Thank you.7:40 PMThank you. Mr. Bradley did you[inaudible] our group is a little bit on the [inaudible] this particular light rail extension even know was promised to go to [inaudible] I do not see any promotional light rail stops for raging waters the bigwaterpark right by eastridge. Granted, he was sold as [inaudible] which clearly, there is a missedopportunity. There is opportunity for ridership to increase. The vga should really work, particularly, work with the owners of the raging waters parkon cunningham road to having light rail go to that waterpark.[inaudible] silicon valley. This is in addition to the need for better public communication that some of the prior speakers have expressed. So consider also raging waters because it is a next-door neighbor it has been there [inaudible] so, thank you.7:41 PMThank you. anybody else? okay. Director mcallister. Dir. Ronnie7:42 PMThank you. I made myself a target. So my understanding of the motion and the request is basically toapprove the eir for a changing project if we do not approve the eir in the change project which is we just go back to the old project. And I think the change in the project is a better project I think I guess the number 1 thing I really like is I have seen some potential negative talk it has extra costs but extending the aerial guideway, really, to me that is a big change for some other small things but extending the aerial guideway which is adding money to the project to add to more grade sequestration's I think is reallyimportant. For our transit system to become faster, more efficient and to get more people to ride its. Weneed to have more grade separations. We need more priority stoplights and so forth. So I really like the part of the project. The other thing and asked this question of staff on purpose. I like it that the community that is willing to give up car lanes to get transit could I have seen other communities in our county not willing to give up car lanes to look for faster transit. So I really appreciate that. I know the county and that is kind of their job to worry about that, but I appreciate the community itself is more into the transit and into the car lanes. That is the other thing that I really like about this. Then, going on a little bit from Mr. Mcallister was touching on does it meet our sustainability goals for transit and so forth. I think we are so think about are there better technology options to our current light rail and hopefully we can get somewhere with that. My understanding is we can find some options that make it cheaper. If it is cheaper than you do not need as many riders per. Right now, standard is 600 next her riders per to you can tell meif I am wrong 600 extra writers per station that we have so you are looking for 1200 new writers for thiskind of project. But that I think if you calculate that that really goes back to giving about a 10% fareboxrecovery but if you could operate just half the cost with some new technology, then your farebox recoverydoubles with that ridership. So I would like us to continue to think about east light rail, the right option and see if there is other we are still a few years away from actually implement in so I like is to continue thinking down the line. And for some it May not seem connected but lost light rail is connected in the minds of of us that live [inaudible] because measure a, if you look at it included only a few things and one of them is light rail to eastridge and the other one is light rail for loss and the 2 projects are really the same. There is to stop short. [inaudible] is to stop short. . The staff was more interested answer myquestion they would have told you that they did have the ridership projections to come close to meeting the minimum standard. And so for that reason they would not recommend board funding the project and it is not funded and I can support it either. I would love for this gentleman mother to be able to take light rail all the way to loss make it easier for other would only go to netflix anyway and she is probably have to take a bus. But I think going forward the eastridge light-rail, before is far above what is what we should do by far. To get light rail to we really need some more density. More density around that netflix area.Campbell needs to agree to build more around the other station. So I know it is not exactly related to the project but I felt like I needed to talk about it. So I will support the motion. Thank you.7:46 PMAnyone else? member manyThank you. I do a question. can you tell me how well attended where these community meetings?They were very well attended I cannot remember the number offhand but there were probably 20-30people there.7:47 PMOkay. so I am going to try it keep it a little short get him to follow along with rob rennie. I agree witheverything he is saying. In terms of I think the project does make sense and I think it will be successful Iknow we have modeling and other modeling came up with numbers and numbers look awfully small but I am not sure how modeling is tuned in to the attitude and the mindset of residents in the immediate area and I hear people really passionate about this and I think those number's hopefully will seem way too low and probably would screwed up and I appreciate if that is what happens. I am a little concerned of making sure that the residence continue to do the next round of outreach. And we really need to drive home the negative impact. But, right now, because I am going to take up the word that the community does understand these impacts that they will be living with these traffic impacts, the noise, the vibration. Those are going to be there I am really going to take councilmember this area that understands this and as acouncilmember is also saying that is the right trade-off that the community can make I do want to[inaudible] and having some come back and say well we were never told about that was never told about the vibration. I think staff did an excellent job of articulating. . I thing again I think is a community that is willing ready and I think always respond to changes and they are transit a lot of them are transitdependent and you know what our most successful transit lines are the ones that connect into thiscommunity. So I have every reason to believe this can be equally successful. So I am hoping that we will the board will support this because it is a better alternative than last one.7:49 PMOkay. thank you. member tran did you I thought [inaudible] go ahead.Thank you chair. I want to chime in a little bit. It is an honor to be part of this vote. We will always look back later on in my life that I supported such a great project for our whole valley. There is a lot of talkabout residence by eastridge to be able to have a public transportation and access, really, to the greatmalland bart station and [inaudible] so I also want to share how important this extension is to [inaudible]residence . Whether it is the teenager taking light rail towards eastridge and maybe working at eastridge were asian waters like I used to work at. This is a new access for them. Even when I was younger we could not take a light rail to great america so I do not get a job there. But I just I really have full faith in the potential that this project will bring to east san jose and the east area. It is going to drive more housing. It is going to drive more jobs and it will really be just as strong development as it is a public transportation infrastructure. So I will be supporting this project and I hope that others make the right decision as well.7:51 PMThank you. member carrasco did you yes,Yes. thank you. well, I am glad that and I appreciate councilmember arena's coming out this afternoon andseeing her time and time again I cannot get enough or on tuesdays at city hall. But, her district in mydistrict our neighboring districts and so this project goes right through both of our districts on capitalexpressway and connects our neighborhoods and our residents both in terms of work, play, and life experiences. But, I think that just it is really telling of how our residents just experience life in the region and how we need to make sure that we build an infrastructure that connects them throughout silicon valley. It is only is a very short project in terms of mileage and it is interesting how complicated it has become and how long it has taken to build this. Over 20 years. In spite of the fact that we have been [inaudible]ourselves. We have been taxing ourselves. And I hope we will garner everyone support. I know there are some items that have surfaced that are concerning. I am concerned about them. I drive every single morning on capital expressway and much to the chagrin of my children, we are late to school every single day. It is all their faults. Completely. Trying to get teenagers out on time, and possible. But I am at the foothills. I am at the foothills of alan rock and I come all the way down story road and by the way, as soon as I leave creighton it is jampacked. If anyone can figure that one out. But what we did in the city of san jose is right in front of a what used to be national hispanic university now is the home of 7 schools that butit is not [inaudible] we created an opportunity to slow traffic down just because were so many studentsand parents that were crossing and folks were just zooming down that hill. So we purposely slowed it down. Now I am really late. That is okay. We justmake up the work but so there is more congestion. Then, the empty out into capital expressway and it takes me quite some time to get 2 680 and we had talked about this when you 1st came in. Because, initially the numbers did not work out in my head. And then Ialso took the diagram to my children I said does this look right to you? They are not engineers aretransportation experts and it did not look right to them either. So, this does not look good to me. As a consumer. As someone who commutes every day and someone who is already late. So I would just to getup earlier or have to find another house. But I think it is interesting as you are doing your research andyour junior outreach that folks are willing to sacrifice that commuter lane because my initial reaction was, heck no and I think I might have used a little more powerful language and I might apologize. There is no way [inaudible] commuter lane. But this is a district and I want to remind everybody, that is not the willow glen of the eastside. Is the east side of the east side. And one that has had many challenges and from the ashes rises the phoenix. So we understand that not everyone drives or has that [inaudible] that we canafford to give our children when they graduate from high school and 2019-06-06t22:56:06. 1348883-04:00 bile by the way I apologize that is why I was late. My granddaughter graduated today and I am soproud because I was the 1st one to graduate from high school and thank g I have not been the last. But we do not have the kind of funds that other folks get to enjoy in hand over to their high school students and give them a shiny new car. Or even a used car. So they depend on buses or light rail or other means sometimes just carpooling with her friends to get to community college or centerview state or santa clara or it, in my case, my mother gave me a greyhound bus, blessed me and said good luck. When she semi-out to santa barbara. And I spent the next 4 yearson public transportation. And so I think on the eastside we are willing to sacrifice that commuter lane because we understand that not everyone has a luxury of driving in a car and so maybe a few extra minutes might really upset us but [inaudible] in comparison tothose who are transit dependent and we have to take that public transportation not because we want tosmother earth because we want to see our children [inaudible]. And saving mother earth happens to be abonus. So I am not completely thrilled with everything that surfaced in this report. I must tell you. I amnot completely thrilled with the fact that there is going to be a lot of noise and vibration even after theproject is complete and as a representative district 5, the side of san jose come I think we have to do a lot of outreach to make sure that people really understand it and one of the things am very proud of that in the past 5 years my [inaudible] is outreach, outreach, outreach. And I beg you to use my office to do outreach outreach, outreach so people really understand that we are eliminating those carpool lanes sopeople left to get out much earlier in the morning and not experience outrage but really share the road asnicely as possible, including myself. . But so that those who are in that corridor understand what it is going to mean to now in the future and forever more. Experience what it is like to live in a suddenly very urbanenvironments. Which is, to experience some vibration and some noise level. One of the things that did not appear that I am concerned about the notes a little bit of a distance but we have a beautiful church and its historic to us and it is very meaningful and there is a national historic landmark which is the mcdonald hall.And I want to make sure that the vibrations are not going to damage it in any way. Which is our lady ofguadalupe and it just down the street or down the way from capital expressway and that [inaudible] is maybe a mile, half a mile, to a mile from there. And I know that is a little bit of away from where you are going to be pounding mother earth but I want to make sure that all that pounding and th once the project is built is not going to damage it or we can do anything about protecting preserving those buildings that we are taking every precaution necessary because if anything happens to it we cannot rebuild it. And so, those are my comments. Thank you so much for all the work you are doing and I am going to ask you yet againto please, use my office so that we can do some outreach and make sure the residence are not caughtoffguard and are very aware of what is coming. Even though it is 2 years away from now. But that they are very aware as well as councilmember we want to make sure they are very well informed and they are prepared for all the changes that are coming. And we know eastside is changing it is going to changedramatically we want to be part of the architecture and the design of the changes. Thank you.8:01 PMThank you. member diepThank you. I do not know how the votes will play out tonight but I want to congratulate the folks whocame out to speak in support in the residence on the side. No matter how it lays out, you are getting light rail could what is on the floor tonight is to approve an amended plan with additional improvements for to make it a better project or if for some reason it does not pass, you get the default project that is already been approved and already on track forward. So I just want to reiterate that because my office is a board member and sitting through some of these board meetings, I been confused because hearing the public comments but tonight but in previous meetings and getting the emails, and the tweets, I have heardefforts let us save light rai it was confusing to me because read the documents and looking around andsaying, who is proposing to cut off light rail? To the side? I just want to make it clear that nobody that Ihave spoken to at bj nobody on staff has proposed that the plan has been all along to bring to the eastsideand that is unfortunate that has taken 20 years. Perhaps there have been discussions about cost and whether having starting at 20 years after was approved whether there is better technologies thatalternatives that could bring public transit to the area but I think we want the public officials to have thediscussion. Want that openness to more efficient cost measures and best technologies but at the end of the day what happens tonight, either way, you are getting light up your congratulations and that is all. I willyield.8:02 PMThank you very much member peralezThank you chair. just because it is timely you May not been aware but there has been discussions with board members that lead individuals including myself that there might be the availing of the east ledge light rail extension I think that has spurred a lot of the conversation. I think what is before to us today for diabetic was a merit as to what the concerns were because I was included. But in regards to what we arediscussing today I wonder to talk just a little bit about what I think is will looks like a negative I think it is a positive. Which is, this increase in the delay for my colleague to sit in capital expressway for next redoublemaybe traffic time. . Slide 19. And I say that, not because it is a positive thing for commuters and theircars. It is a negative thing but in my mind, that is a positive thing. Because if we ever intend to actually get people out of their cars, well, for one, we could build the most superefficient fastest best craziest transportation public transportation infrastructure available but we are nowhere near there yet. Wecertainly have conversations and plans and hopes and dreams and with got May be another mega originalmeasure to discuss opportunities to get there but we are speaking of light rail later is potentially away. One of the things that is going to help speed that up to get people out of the cars because we actually do have, maybe not the best of most efficient public transportation that we have public transportation is going to be when they decide and way out and go you know it, it is actually better and faster and maybe less stressful for me to take public transportation from where I am at. Then to sit in double the amount of traffic time.Or triple the amount of traffic time. And we have been making some of these decisions as my colleaguestated, director rasco to actually slow down traffic. In certain areas specifically. Whether it is pedestrian safety around schools, whatever it May be, but additionally, increasing congestion will increase the opportunity for people to choose the alternative solution. Right now,the city is still too fast to drive in your car in so many places around the bay that ppeople still choose to do that over public transportation. This slide actually helps that so it hurts for commuters and if you are job, yes, this is not a slide you enjoy looking at. But it actually is going to help entice people into get them but if we do not have the option of public transportation in any of these areas,well then they will be stuck only driving. So if we do not do something like extend light rail it is not just out here to east ridge. Quite frankly, extending our publictransportation even further and further as we go throughout our cities and our counties. If we do not do that then we give people know option in this case we are talking about the option of an extension and this offset here I things actually get a job up some of the numbers that we are projecting. I understand, right now we have in our projections. I actually think it could potentially be worse by the year 2025. You May get even more people so frustrated that were so late to drop the kids at school that there May actually be another option to get there. And so, actually think this a positive slide but then again I do not have the same commute as my colleagues. Now, eugene bradley tittle still a little bit of my thunder because part of what my comments were going to be was that I am hoping and 2025 to take my 7-year-old and May be at the time a 5 or for who knows if I have another, to take them from downtown,, maybe if I wait a year so I can actually take a nice subway bart underneath santa clara could I am forcing them leaf to hop up at the moment to take brt but we can take light rail over to go to raging waters and we actually could do that and that was part of eugene's comments I was going to make because I recall growing up as a kid taking the23 to the 57 for god knows how long to great america living in west san jose and middle school with all myfriends and was something we love to do. Took the whole damn day. We rode the bus couple buses spent her day great america had to be home at a certain curfew which a couple lengthy buses. But that wassomething very very enjoyable for us to do. Now I certainly know that bart will be ready by the time my kid is in middle school and being able to enjoy great america raging waters is something that they will beable to do just like I was able to do growing up as a kid that they can do today. 2019-06-06t23:08:04.2130528-04:00 nobody's to walk that distance in their swimsuit. You will walk from east ridge. I have done that before quite frankly. So, free parking. [laughing] got a hustle every now and then. So, I think it really is going to be quite a benefit and we do not understand how many people it will be a benefit for. Were speaking about your standard commuters. Were not necessary thing about the middle school kids. I canbenefit from this[inaudible] if you live at san jose state either equidistant [inaudible] and you know which one is faster to get you? Rate mall. You have to leave san jose from downtown san jose if you want takepublic transit. . Why? Because light rail gets the great mall faster than anywhere else. Because we haveabsolutely no good public transit present the very lengthy bus to 2019-06-06t23:09:17. 3515121-04:00santana row. And right now, it is extremely lengthy but buses to get to each ridge. So, this is going to be I hope we have a [inaudible] and maybe bring back camera 12. Trying hard. I think the benefits go muchbeyond what we see today I am seen it from a different perspective. Representative of a downtown jos? . Ithink we have heard from public speakers and individuals that have waited for this for different reasons but for many others as well I am enthusiastically supporting this alternative option which I do feels better and my colleague supported as well.8:10 PMMember corteseThank you madam chair. I do not want to [inaudible] I could but I do not want to [inaudible] includingseveral of you. I want to thank you for that because I do believe much of what has been said by Mr. Rennie and others, to the board has all been true and often accurate. . And the project as it is now envisioned [inaudible] but really really important. I just wanted to thank the bta team for responding to what has been at least a 2 decade [inaudible] which is how can we engineer light rail to move as quickly as people wanted to go and get them from where they want to where they are to where they want to be. And you have done that with this. You know, it is a breakthrough in terms of speed and travel on an expresswaythat was never designed to attempt to even carry the cars the number of cars they are trying to bypass [inaudible] a massive ut through [inaudible] got hov lanes that are not unforced 2019-06-06t23:11:41.7614223-04:00 [inaudible] jurisdiction of the highway patrol the highway patrol does not come down to the hov lane so it is not much use trying to move a car or bus or anything on wheels currently without any kind of [inaudible] dedicated right away. So you figured out what we do with something that train agencies want to a boulevard it eventually were people want traffic to slow down even more but where we already have intersections. I am sure you went back and looked at all the expresswayinput we received. All thenight studies that of been done out there love the creative ideas the people of done about going over andunder and around and name the proposition you want and you come up with a way to do this at 55 mph toconnect to the modality that already exists at all moroccan key people moving from a bedroom communityto where they want to go. And they want to go to faggot they want to go to north san jose. They want to go to [inaudible] without taking 2 hours to get from the house and traffic. They want and yes we haveaffluent neighborhoods in this area, too. San jose country club area. The foothills. Those bands of fans of the 49ers and entertainment options at levi stadium, they would like to get there without having to struggle just like in videos. So there is literally hundreds of reasons,, practical reasons, to keep moving down this path but to do it this way and again, I will just close by saying, thank you for creating a better option. That really, to me, is dwelling on the negative of 20 years of waiting and recessions and downtimesand people having to come out and fight for this project and people will keep coming out now because once bitten, twice shy but you use the time in between wisely to figure out how to [inaudible] and learn from past mistakes and approached the right rail extension in a way that is nobody done before at a much higher speed to major park-and-ride expansion to a major [inaudible] so thank you for that.8:14 PMMember carr.Thank you. I will be brief. I the ability through the [inaudible] committee to have a comments about thispreviously but I just want to thank everyone who spoken to us but everyone who has reached out to us. Toall of us, not just members that represent san jose but the entire board. So I greatly appreciate that. One of the things that this project has brought to us is forced this board to have a conversation about light rail.It has forced this board to think about light rail today, what light rail was the best what should be in thefuture. And I think that is a positive conversation. Something that we should be doing anyway. This projecthas forced us to do that and it is bringing improvements and a willingness from this board to look even further and to do more it is also forced to the community to come together and to consider the trade-offs.I was greatly concerned when I saw the hov lanes going like your when I saw the charge that member temporalis was talked lorraine out of this committee was done here and said we still want this project we know there are impacts and we are willing to give up those hov lanes and I am guessing that means ourcars to be able to use public transportation and that is what I am hoping for of us are willing to do. Will represent different parts of this county. All parts of this county and waiting for different things for years in different improvements in light of greater access to public transportation and here we have an opportunityto do that for one part of our community. That being said, I am going to support this project and is updated in financial impact report tonight. Not without reservations. A significant and unavoidable impacts of our great concerns and I am glad that my friends and colleagues from the san jose districts that represent these areas are more than willing to step up to help the committee's understand what those impacts are because they are going to be significant and we all need to be a part of that as well. Then, Iam hoping that is councilmember rennie said people who use 1016 area can benefit from this project aswell and that means that other parts of this entire county May see some benefits from the spirit I know we did not analyze that. That is why asked that but I am hoping that is when the benefits that we see as well.Thank you manager.8:17 PMAnd videos that wishes to speak? I a sorry. Mayor liccardoThank you. I want to thank [inaudible] I appreciate your continued engagement obviously still a lot of work to do but I am grateful for the strong support of the community to move forward with the transit. I dowant to comment, I guess about this issue about the equity in terms of how we are investing. Because I dothink [inaudible] the reality is, I worked on measure a 19 years ago and many of us pushed very hard to get that past and we committed lots of things to those. Including bart all the way through downtown san jose and st. Clair airport connector. Committed to transit lines and a couple other segments stevens creek and el camino and, yes, [inaudible] and the reality is, none of that stuff has been built yet. We know bart is can be open at [inaudible] and the reality is, none of it has been built in part because you a couple very serious recession between the time a tax measure passed and today and frankly,that ballot measure as I reflect on it now, was never going to be sufficient for projects that were essentially placed on it. And as a result of course would come back to voters and that is why we worked very hard in regional measure 32's for this project and support moving on with other things we need to but in reality I want folks to appreciate [inaudible] I appreciate that. But there is lots of parts of the country that are also waiting and so I do not want there to be the belief as I have heard several times I know director rennie has heard this thesuggestion right now a great great right rail system running to [inaudible] that is not what is going on. In fact, as I recalls in the committee vote were essentially we put the compassion moving forward himanyway. Or what will be likely very long time. There is no funding. Is not likely to happen so I just wantfolks to appreciate there are people on this board from other parts of this valley that are not san jose theresupporting this project because they believe is the right thing to do and it is the right thing to do. That is not necessarily because the ridership today because I think director mcallister is right the ridership numbers do not justify it by allowing this kind of investment but it is really [inaudible] wayne gretzky'sfather advised him, you do not skate to where the puck is. You schedule the puck is going to be. And what we see happening in the city typically with opportunities with potential redevelop and are the airport[inaudible] and so forth is what could be incredibly vibrant. If we can get this right this transit system will be at the core of that and helping to sustain the kind of developments. That would critically one could we want jobs and retail and all kinds of [inaudible] and other opportunities in that part of our city. So anyway, I am happy to support this and I am grateful for the support from my colleagues.8:20 PMInc. you. any other comments? Member mcallister.I have a couple of questions for [inaudible]. Our greenhouse gases considered in this scenario?Yes. they are.Are they going up, down?They go up in the short-term especially in opening years but in the long-term they go down.Okay. when you are doing your modeling does that include [inaudible] potential [inaudible] or does it have to be approved?8:21 PMIt does not include projects that are not approved.So only those that are approvedThe projects that are in the general plan but those in the general plan our development [inaudible] would be considered in the model.Okay. I was just trying to get clarity. Director chavez said that hillview was not included.That is an example where the development that member chavez mentioned is not considered in modeling.Okay. discuss ever come into any of these considerations or you are just looking at project standalone for what it is [inaudible]Well, the environment told document primarily [inaudible] environmental effects of the project and notcost.8:22 PMI was reading through the statement of facts and statement of overriding considerations and they say thisproject has several benefits including public transit service in the corridor providing an attractive transitalternative provides regional conductivity improves regional air and sports local economic development. Isupport all those. Those are what we should be doing at the vga board. And these are admirable projectsand I think would benefit society but I am not sure this project as it stands now does everything that we are trying to talk about here. It is an improvement from the beginning we had the enhanced grade separations as I know how important grade separations are. And I am also concerned about the overridingconsiderations. . Prior committee reports people were talking about the very low and low income[inaudible] specific points out for the population and how that is going to affect them. And that is the concern again. There is a lot of other items you came [inaudible] statement of overriding considerations [inaudible] and we cannot mitigated these. They are unavoidable. That is a big concern of mine along with director carr. But with this project has done in this process and I agree with a lot of people on the board, it has developed the conversation. What can be done, what needs to be done and how the monies going to be allocated. And this is an opportunity, again to see I mean it could be a milestone for the vga board to actually look at projects and make sure that they meet our new standard. Even though this was voted on20 years ago and developed 20 years ago, that people were promised a transit system and I think we are going in the right direction in providing a transit system. And hopefully they are open to new technologies,,alternatives, not necessarily selling their sulfur light rail because we all [inaudible] light rail is not a technology for we want to go. But I think this eir has helped us to find define the scope a little better and one thing the eir also helps us get our route and puts us in a direction so right-of-way is important. So whatever technology we stumble on for future development down the road. The mayor also made[inaudible] and I was looking at it and it said rather than to provide connectivity for [inaudible] international airport. Provide room for light rail vehicles. Improve couch and by double tracking to gilroy and rectifying for palo alto gilroy. I think they have been waiting for a long time also. Construction of a toll intermodal transit system. Improving service major bus quarters. . I know people were interested inpushing buses. Upgrade the ultimate commuter express. Improve highway 17 express visit. Connectingcaltrain with the dunbar rail corridor. That is interest make that sort of gain some traction now that facebook is involved in the. Purchasing 0 mission bus [inaudible] constructing facilities developing new light rail corridors. I do not know if that was [inaudible] but I was in the. There is a lot of projects out there that are all warranted for service. Many people mentioned that to david been paying taxpayer well you are lucky that the whole county is supporting always projects when they come about because we all are paying taxes for them. So it is a fair statement to say that everybody is trying to improve tran throughout the area. I am sort of torn about supporting this motion because I am not overriding consideration with what the project is providing, but I think we are going in the direction that a discussion is existing now that Ibelieve [inaudible] on how to wisely and judiciously spend the vga's money and provide a service that isgoing to last us into 2040 or maybe [inaudible] valley transportation theme. I will support excepting this eir and I know that continuing conversations will improve this project even beyond what we have now.Thank you.8:27 PMThank you chair mcallister. so my comments will be very brief. I agree with a lot of what has been said in abeen very interested in seeing the project being approved and I share some of the same concerns about the issues that been raised. So I realize that the eir is looking at some the existing populations but perhaps we ought to spend some time looking at different scenarios for what could be happening for development at retail view and if I did not realize [inaudible] is being considered for redevelopment. But we know everything these days is being considered for redevelopment. So perhaps we can do some examination ofwhat those properties could yield in terms of ridership and I very much I would not be supportive if we were not going to continue to look at the new technologies that can bring down the cost and improveperformance. . Because one of the other memos on the agenda talk about some of the things that are being done to try to improve the speed of light rail and our bus system and until we can do those thingsand get ridership up, we are not going to be able to have the kind of ridership that many of the people inthis room, [inaudible] their neighbors I know in my neighbors I lost one of the bus lines ice to take to work, too. So understand it is problematic. And I do want to point out that this is [inaudible] so I do think is maybe the board members have said, that we can continue to improve this project so that we are being good stewards of the public funds, which is one of our primary responsibilities as members of this board. .So in light of what the motion scope of the motion for the environment told document I will be supportive also. So we have a motion and a 2nd. And we had very robust discussion. So all those in favor say, aye.[chorus of ayes. ] any opposed say, nay. The motion passes. Thank you very much. So that takes us toitem 8. 4 which is to provide direction to staff on whether to continue exclusive negotiations with republicmetropolitan llc for a transit orientated8:29 PM[applause] development project on bta only and at the santa clara caltrain station park and ride lot basedon either a, the site plan and a moment program as proposed by republican metropolitan or, b, the siteplan development program for a denser phased mix used to bauman identified by staff. Ron director of realestate and joint of element and jesse o'malley manager transit and bob meadows been will provide the report.8:30 PMMdm. chair I want to be no time recuse myself from this item. Thank you.So noting those 2 refusals, thank you.Thank you. we are here tonight to provide you with an update on the exclusive agreement and negotiates of the current between vga santa clara and the department of republic metropolitan what we are going to to do tonight is disruptive to the project and developers propose. We are also going to present you a staff alternative and to make this as simple as possible what we at staff as at the board to do and provide us direction for ongoing negotiations should be go to developers work could we go to staff developmentalternative. So, to 1st start with the site, those not for May with the location this is the santa clara caltrain park-and-ride lot. It is across from santa clara university. The whole block which is in yellow, the majority owner of the block is the city of santa clara. Eta owns a small portion is in you and to give you [inaudible] is across from santa clara . On the other side of the truck you see caltrain and bart station. That is the new hall yard and you see other developing a little [inaudible] this about a mile north of pullman avenue. So to provide background, in December 2017 the dj board authorized an axis of negotiation agreement with[inaudible] call metropolitan. So we are now in month 16 of those exclusive negotiations. The agreementexpires on august 5 of this yearand staff is holding to that deadline for agreement on a term sheet to bring back to the board of directors. At the time the [inaudible] it was approved the board provided direction for the project are not reflected concerns that we understood that they defy the propose project that was not dense enough that the student project did not have specific commitments about affordable housing and that student housing project was not necessarily major trends are generate of transit ridership so the board asked [inaudible] greater mix of uses. In addition to that come I would like to note that the city's concern that been subject to this negotiation have been primarily into categories. One is that there is the city's existing primary water well on the property and infrastructure for that and there has been discussion from the developers propose about replacing that reconfiguring the. That is what is [inaudible] is a veryexpensive proposition. The city also has an inclusionary housing ordinance that requires 50% of affordablehousing. The discussions to date have been the developer we need to make it $8 million in lieu fee payment to the [inaudible] so finally on to note in this presentation focusing on program. I am not could you talk about the draft developer term sheet. However presentation [inaudible] after I finish would just those items. So, the developer proposal. You see the rendering here the developers provided us with the the project is largely similar to what was presented that we started exclusive negotiation the proposal is for 186 student housing is because these are largely four-bedroom units that have 4 separate bedrooms for students essentially 555 beds in the proposal as been presented to us has no affordable housing identified. The project has approximately [inaudible] commercial space in this been a slight increase in commercial space during negotiation. When the significant changes is that the project [inaudible] 100 placement parking spaces for caltrain in the project which is a part of the original proposal and that is the number that caltrain staff identified is our objective [inaudible] so in our discussions with the developer we were pushing for a project that greater density and more affordable housing and at other uses than ridership. And the assessment from the developer in response we got is that there were no building to make changes to the project for greater additional uses that would still [inaudible] and ivan asterix on that to know this was our last discussion we start the process going to committees there have been additional proposals that [inaudible] and we understand elsewhere late to the subject of affordable housing and otheruses. So, based on staff that we are not making progress in many directions we used one of our on-callarchitectural consultants that we have to actually help us identify alternative. To be clear about what wewere trying to do, it was our opinion starting out that the student housing project is developers proposedbut we could actually add onto that and have additional uses an additional density and create more transitridership. That was that mandate we give our architect. And what I will talk about in a minute are basically 2 alternatives that were developed. One is, an alternative that basically develop this project with anaddition of a rights development [inaudible] the 2nd alternativewas about basically a reconfiguration of the project that would go ahead is largely opposed by [inaudible] that would preserve the property we havethat we could view as a subsequent [inaudible] and to do that we would have to minor adjustment for the city [inaudible]. So we went through the architectural proposal and basically allow the developers[inaudible] and based on the analysis of our formal housing console we believe the project now would support any and commensal costs that were associated with reconfiguring the project. Now I want to be clear about this idea of a 2nd phase or additional add-on to the project. And that is we are talking about a midrise [inaudible] type of project. We understand that in the market in our analysis bear this out the project is not feasible just like many types of developments are not feasible at present. However, it is ourexpectation by the time the bart station opens that the increase in value with the [inaudible] as you would make this project feasible. So we believe that what we are tied what at a [inaudible] is a feasible projectinto that and I would point out that on the other side of the track the city of santa clara is considered 1600 using [inaudible] and that is for project has several midrise towers in it similar to what were envisioning.So I offer that is a developers perspective that midrise housing does work at this location in the future. So the graphic I am showing you is alternative we developed. On the right side, you see what I would describe as the developers propose project and his future 2nd phase and what it shows is basically in project that would be be on top of the commercial top of the project so if you look below you see a section that hascommercial on the lower-level [inaudible]. On the left side, would be what we would call the or proposal is still less the developer did the student housing project but it preserves the parcel that we own the partial adjustment to allow a separate future 2nd phase that we again [inaudible]. So, if the alternative wedevelop was basically led the development project go ahead [inaudible] about 5 and 61 beds but we would add on anywhere from 86 to [inaudible] affordable units we would out on the opportunity for another 20,20,000 ft. 2 of commercial and we would still have the caltrain parking. So to sum up, we are here today, and staff's opinion we have not been successful in a commerce in the direction provided to us to get changes that would provide greater density, greater uses or more transit ridership. We are presenting toyou staff alternatives that would list the developers student housing project proceed albeit in a slightlyreconfiguring and I would preserve the future option to go to a 2nd phase as future date for additional themoment of a midrise [inaudible] with a result that not only would we get more density were used more riders would also get more [inaudible] potentially we think we would get twice the revenue compared to the developers project it sought to emphasize these alternatives from the staff perspective is consistent as well with the recent changes we have understood the developer to make in terms of workforce of other types of affordable housing projects. So this is something about taking developers project and adding on to it. So with that, I will stop and again to reiterate what we at staff are asking is the board to providereduction is whether [inaudible] before the [inaudible] to proceed with the proposed project do we proceedwith a staff alternative and I think will turn over to [inaudible] presentation okay. Then I will be happy to answer questions and I will defer to general counsel to make the announcement.8:40 PMI apologize for interjecting but I wanted to set the record and make it clear that we have recusal's under84308 contributions from member 2019-06-06t23:40:30. 9742420-04:00 ricardo and chavez.8:41 PMThank you.Chair only oh members of the board, co fernandez. I am bob mendelson presidents of republicmetropolitan I am going to try to stay within a 5 minute limits. We are proposing a handsomely designed and economically feasible project. That will deliver much-needed affordable student and workforce housing to santa clara and guarantee lease payments to bta and the city for generations. Santa clara station will be 186 unit 555 bed mixed-use students and workforce housing project as dense as practical. Units will be fully furnished. The by the bed unit type is a 1st of its kind in the area making the per bed rental price much more affordable. Contemporary design has been created together with a committee of the old quad residents association. Project will deliver important economic and community benefits that we just not beallowable with the . 71 of an acre bta site alone. These benefits include mixed-use neighborhood servingretail, generating sales tax revenue, on site caltrain replacement and funding of the transit ridership incentive program. Further, importantly, republic metropolitan is prepared to supply the city's recommended percentage of affordable housing units on site but not anything like an in lieu payments. As you know, the sites jointly are owned by vta in the city of santa clara to the project is based uponexclusive negotiating agreement passed by both bodies. From the beginning, we have worked with the city and vta staff to incorporate their feedback. As a result, program modifications we have implemented to encourage ridership include, a curated food hall modeled on san pedro square that is now the designed the design has been changed to face both el camino riel and the train station. A medical service center offeringoutpatient appointment, physical and occupational authority to increase transit ridership we are proposing the [inaudible] program which I will explain in a minute. Community benefits for the old quad are particularly meaningful given the projects provision of undergraduate students housing which will helprelieve the burden of students crowding into rental housing in neighborhoods surrounding the campus.Santa clara station is $140 million economically sound and fully finance civil developments that can virtually guarantee their lease up from opening to the end of a long-term lease. And I am pleased to report that [inaudible] asked me to let you know that our project meets the criteria of his silicon valley leadershipgroup. Development will produce over to an and 33 million and combine ground lease revenue over the term of the ground lease could over 165 million to the city, nearly 60 million to bta then payments will increase annually generated from a project that will enjoy a steady and consistent flow of tenants. The term sheet to be negotiated provides proposes a 750,000 annual lease payment increased by 2% a year.70% to the city, 30% to bta. At 60 units per acre, the projects 186 units fall within the santa clara station very high density residential designation. Additionally, given the concentration of beds per unit,, that is to say, fewer units generating more beds, the project will house a population occupying 555 beds. This bedcount is approximately 60% higher than the 330 beds typically apportioned to a 275 unit multifamilyresidential project. Through the creation of trip the transit ridership incentive program, [inaudible] will buy and distribute to the residents of santa clara station, 45 caltrain 60 monthly passes per month for 5 years from the start of occupancy of the project. Generating more than 16,000 new trips a year providing for about $1 million in total revenue for caltrain. In the fall of 2018, we were asked by your staff to explore developing an alternative to the current proposal. Including student housing, the soon city on portion site and type I steel and concrete construction 10 story 86 unit multifamily tower on the vta on portion of the site. We were offered the opportunity to develop the entire project by eta staff. And thus, had every reason to make this alternative work. Accordingly, we performed extensive due diligence on the project including soliciting a construction estimate a major construction company the vta say plan and run a competitiveconference of pro forma bottom-line. The program simply did not and does not come close to workingeconomically and accordingly, is not financial. A conclusion with which your staff agrees as indicated in their action item memorandum [inaudible] dated May 7, 2000 and happy to respond to any questions you May have on your time.8:47 PMThank you very much Mr. Mason. So Mr. Carr would you like to startThank you mme. cheviot thank you for joining us. A couple of questions. You went over real quickly theaffordable housing piece. Seems to be a little different than was presented to us before. Could you tell us again what you told us tonight but affordable housing in the project?I think we must not have an clear Mr. Carr. it has always been our intention to comply with affordablehousing requirements with the city of santa clara. We want to get to the negotiation could we made anunsolicited proposal. There is a term sheet there. We have been hoping to move forward for some time with a negotiation. . In the negotiation we will learn from the city of santa clara with those affordablerecordings are and will do them [inaudible] and we will not be buying in lieu payments.8:48 PMYou will be able to build the affordable housing?Yes, sir.Great. if I May continue, when you came before [inaudible] I was very intrigued by this idea of studenthousing. But also as workforce housing in this idea, it sort of different to me about a bed count as opposedto a unit come.So the beds are, as we discussed in your committee, they are bed and bath pods. At various levels there are even 3 or 4 of those in a central area which is a gathering and setting a variety of things good and onekitchen. Because of this by bed situation, which by the way does not exist in the area today, it really increases the density over a normal multifamily rental project and the law does not allow, as I think perhaps all of you know, for when you are building housing on a site that is not on a campus of the university, you cannot legally restricted as to student housing. So the notion has always been substantialnumber of the 555 beds would available for teachers, policemen, workers and high-tech community and we fully expect that to be substantial.8:49 PMSo you see that would be a market that you would be serving as well. . It is not just students butworkforce housing?Exactly.8:50 PMThank you. thank you for being here tonight.Director rennyMaybe started to answer my question but I was a am skeptical about the 16,000 new trips generated when I look at it as student housing, why 2019-06-06t23:50:17. 8551726-04:00 them all for student housing awhile with a ride the light rail that they just need to walk across the street to their daily work which is being a student. You also, look sick of 5 over to so you have 2 stories of commercial. Is that commercial going to generate all those trips? What I am trying to get at, help me understand better their 16,000 trips a year are going to come from?Well, okay so a couple of different aspects of that. One is the students live there are not going to usepublic transportation across the street. They are going to use the public transportation to that some ofthem May even go to san francisco. They are going to do that presumably instead of renting uber or lyft or those other alternatives, a lot either the students or the workforce occupants May not actually have the wheels. We are going be providing substantial parking at 100 units in addition to is what caltrain s4 for commuters but it is a combination of retail of a food hall as we say, modeled as, miniature of the san pedro square. Folks will come to that. There will be substantial medical services. People will come to that. Andthen leave from that and they will not necessarily live there. People in the committee but also otherpeople. The 16,000 trips issue that you mention, is specifically because of the fact that we will be spending the money, $1 million, to provide pays for 5 years, 6 faces that takes you all the way from the train from the train station on the web to san francisco if they choose to go. So the analysis that we performed is that when you add them all up you get 16,000 additional rides.8:52 PMDirector if I May add to that?Please, go ahead.We spoke to caltrain's staff on the subject and [inaudible] republic much about the did not review the[inaudible] so caltrain staff [inaudible] they express shipping on this was a guess on their part thenumbers were [inaudible] 30 trips per month times 12 months per year would get you the 16,000 number.8:53 PM30 trips per month per pass?Yes.Okay. I am still skeptical. all right. Let me move on to a 2nd question. So everybody's talking about higher density not feasible and I think it is related to that magic number as soon as you go over 7 stories you have to use more expensive construction. Is that correct?That is certainly part of it. That is why the 10 story notion that staff is proposing is simply much tooexpensive. Anytime now or in the foreseeable future.And has it ever made sense in the past?I am sorry? is it again be was building a 10 story building did ever make economic sense in the past? Isonly right now there does make sense? I am trying to understand is what is the chance that make sense inthe future? If it has not made sense to it does not make sense now has made sense in the future I would make sense in the future?8:54 PMRight. so when you are deciding what type of construction you use, whether you want to do what we callstick built. That is to say woodframe. Which this will be over a concrete podium for parking. When youdecide whether or not a project can withstand the additional cost of going to type when construction, you analyze it based on the rents you are going to be able to get, your location could obviously there is plenty of places in san jose where you have things that are more than 10 stories. More question about its. And at each one is a site-specific decision. So the fact of the matter is, and believe me, we have analyze this as closely as we can because it is for our benefit. When staff get to the notion with coming up with additionalbuilding support, it would be to our benefit candidly, to do that. It does not work it is too expansive for theamount of space that is there and the enormous increase, god love them, and construction costs which aregoing up now 2% a year. So, sure I mean, we build high-rise construction and when the situation once it.It does not warrant it.8:55 PMOkay. thank you.Thank you.Director brewingYes. I have a follow-up on one of the questions. You answer question but the workforce housing. But youalso mentioned in your presentation if I understood correctly affordable housing. You are providingaffordable housing?BothHow are you providing affordable housing?8:56 PMBefore the housing as I mentioned to Mr. Carr, we will comply with whatever the affordable housing[inaudible] the the city of santa clara imposes. We do not know with a are you. In other words, that standard would be is what the city of santa clara proposes. In regards to the workforce housing - i'm sorry -No. I think were clear on the workforce housing. So the city of santa clara has an exclusionary housing2019-06-06t23:56:35. 0287718-04:00If I May add to that. we spoke with housing staff the city of santa clara has a 15% visionary requirement.All contrast that to the vta adopted housing policy as far as 20%. The policies [inaudible] does not reallyconsider [inaudible] so it is target to a traditional multifamily type project with units at 50% of ami or less.I think that with the housing department said to me is this is something that negotiations they would think about how to make this work. To have the issue about the [inaudible] your beds get there even think youmaybe do something on a square foot basis or some sort of adaptation that we need to do to go for. Thatwould require negotiations as has been pointed out. Obviously come I would presume we would all be subject to city council of santa clara considering approval of whatever alternative is neggotiated.8:57 PMI would add to that, we are anxious to get to that. . AnxiousOkay. my next question is, sorry because I am a caltrain board member as well. And both proposals herewe are talked about replacing what caltrain is asking for in terms of automobile parking. If this is reallytarget because [inaudible] which is very appealing to college students in all, are both of these projects arewe putting abundant amounts of bike parking ? So bright facilities such that if you think about the students in such where you have got alternative but of transportation, not just the caltrain but8:58 PMYes, ma'am. and by the way it would not just be students. It would be [inaudible]Right. so assuming you both have major quantity of bike facilities on the property. Okay.Okay. director temporalisThank you chair. a couple things. I think ron for just mentioning the percentage and I do recommend with a little bit of an affordable component which is probably what is going to create some of the maybe thediscussion with the city of santa clara but even after 15% you are looking at obviously more than this 18.22 and our goal in miami, 20%, right?8:59 PM[inaudible / off mic]So, if we are looking at it now do we tend to use the per unit or have we been creative as well the squarefootage? How have we analyze that and I would we maybe analyze it in this regard? Let us say was solelya vta project we want to hit the 20%, how would we do that and what you think we come up with?I May see if I can answer the question it today we have not had a [inaudible] I think the question if Iunderstand what you are asking if we were to [inaudible] how would we think about that in terms ofaffordable housing. That is a really interesting question. I think [inaudible] I think by observation will be isthat the state legislature recently passed a new law, 1227, that actually is a modification of things housingbonus law and what that does is, that specific targets student housing development what it says is that student housing development in order to achieve 2019-06-07t00:00:27. 4254411-04:00 [inaudible] that you have to have that 20% of the unit needs to be affordable. It is not clear a lot with aiming units in that in terms of the affordability the affordability needs to be at 30% based on a 64% ami number which is wethink would be about $1500 a month and then there is also additional requirement that the families of thestudents that their household income without exceed either [inaudible] program. I think those limits are why you can make that assessment. So I offer thatnot as a recommendation but just as an observation[inaudible] and if we start think about this program that might be were we start that our thought process.I will say in general [inaudible] generally look for them to take the leadership in terms of the [inaudible]Okay. I understand it with a student housing and the way this takes is coming up. It is not as easy it would be which is just the standard multifamily looking at the per unit how many units we want to get thataffordable. I do appreciate mendelson - i'm sorry - vice edit and correct the can is that correct esthermendelsonYes.I just want make sure I was getting her name is traffic.MendelsonI do appreciate you saying that the goal, whatever it May up and up being [inaudible] because that wouldbe truly important for us whatever we are doing what I am not so comfortable with us if we do not necessarily know what that number is going to be yet and that is clearly as you are here, at vta withhigher goals just in general achieving more affordable housing than the city of santa clara does. So Iassume already it would be less of requirements that they would be going off of their 2019-06-07t00:02:37. 1206909-04:00 initial standard of 50% where is our initial standard [inaudible] a discussion we 20%. So for me seen that we do a property we do have stake in the game here, I would still notnecessarily want to pursue the minimum of what it is the city santa clara requires. I would want to playpart in that that discussion and not just leave it to the city of santa clara. The other component with regards to the [inaudible] ron, you mention you had a conversation caltrain to see to wake up in numbers.Esther mendelson, do you know how you did the math to get the numbers with a 1600?Very similar to what [inaudible] didSo assuming the 45 individuals at the passes out of the 555 beds5 and 65 individual, those 45 individualswill use the train on average once a day. For 3 and 65 days a year to get to the 1600 and that is enough.That could be that. but 1st of all, it is not necessarily the same folks who are going to be using everyone.You are issuing them per month?[multiple voices]Wait a 2nd. I am being told something. Wait a minute[multiple voices]So here is the math. one month [inaudible] one time a day 30 to 45 passes equals 13 1350 trips 1003 and 50 trips a month. 1003 and 50 trips a month times 12 months equals 16,200 new trips each yearOkay. is the same.Yes. just broken downNow, you are mentioning it would be potentially new individuals getting passes every month? Are they be issued out per month is that what I heard or did I hear wrongYes. there are 45 caltrain monthly passes a month over the 1st 5 years. Of the project.Okay. that answer my question I thought I heard. Maybe a her to run. I just ask how do you plan on giving up these past they could go to 45 people for all year this 45 people are the lucky ones or how is that goingto you plan on doing that?Yes. I am not sure exactly.Okay. totally hundred all tell you honestly [inaudible] I do agree with my colleagues considering we talk letstudents and even vaccination Mr. Mendelson your talk about leisurely travel. We usually travel is kind oflike what I do on caltrain and I can guarantee you it is not once a date or 3 times a month. That I thinkwould be the reality. We would not see commuters using this think is potentially what you might have assumed only 45 passes been in the which is 535 individuals. That in itself already speaks my concern that the majority of the individuals in this development are not really going to be the transit riders there we are looking for. And that is why I think you might have even used to 45. I will not even ask I am just going to using the number you will use their which was 45. I would prefer a development that we can get closer to25%, 30% if not better of the individuals that are using the transit that is nearby vs. What you are lookingat here which is even less intention so I am just kind of that concerns me a little bit be out enough there isa real solution to that considering we are talked about student housing. Unless we completely decided tochange a model and say what were not doing student housing doing workforce and all of a sudden he is the transit for them at a know if there is an answer. That this can be resolved in itself. But I think it just helps paint the picture of the challenges that we have in front of us which is that you have a pretty decent project that you are proposing here. I do not see anything wrong with a projects of the student housing the mix that you have got I think there is a lot of benefits of the project but specifically when you look atwhat our ownership is what our goals are with affordable housing, goggles and driving ridership in the balance, I do not think this hits it. And I do not know if what ron has obviously asked staff go out and do we get even a project closer to what this board is looking for clearly, both parties have had out well, were looking for my not be feasible right now. So that puts us in a spot that is as well all right so we do decide we sort of move forward with allowing his project to move forward, or do we sort of wait and say maybe we can get something better in the future but we do not know that. It is an unknown. So that is thedilemma that I think that I am in. Maybe I have helped you get there now but that is the dilemma I am having now which is deciding to remove a project that May not be exactly what it is that this board has asked for but it is a bird in the hand and we know it is feasible. You can fund this project move forwardwith it has a lot of benefits. Or do we hold off in our staff has given us alternative based on what[inaudible] and here is an alternative is aqua jumping today so it would take waiting game a change in thefeasibility of the market whatever it May be. But, we think we can get something better out of our property here that meets our goals. So I am still going to be debating and I will turn over [inaudible]Just to be clear we are currently in agreement with metropolitan and the city of santa clara. That goesthrough august 5's were obligated [inaudible] to august 55. So what we are asking the board to do tonight is a choice between the 2 alternatives of what could be used to shape the negotiations . I also want to share perhaps perspective that is useful to you that when we think about the bart exemption, and with you about the kind of [inaudible] run the station, we know the work we have done that a lot of the dense mixed-use midrise we want to see it all for [inaudible] stations is not present. I do not offer that as anegative same I just offer that as a observation. But we and our market consultant developmentconsultants have every confidence that with a dynamic that is in the market and with the arrival [inaudible] and ross and popularized by the time [inaudible] are 20 will see private development because [inaudible]. So I say that because general [inaudible] we are not holding [inaudible] when I trying to run out and develop them today. So from our perspective and staff we think metropolitan proposition try to dothe workforce - i'm sorry - student housing project but preserve that option for us to do an additional phase in the property and bring in the additional uses kind of development that does bring in more transitridershipSo you bring more confident in the assurance that based on what we already have approved and thetransit improvements that come to the area it is not so much far-fetched that we would have a feasible projectAnd I say that again on the other side of the tracks the developers proposing a 1600 housing of elementregular multifamily housing when you look at the plant able [inaudible] they have at least a couple of two-story towers. So this is another developer who is looking at this market [inaudible] by the way who hasdeveloped numerous projects in the area they are saying in their plan they are proposing to the city day think they can support midrise 12 and that is why were asking you to approve that.Are there other questions for Mr. Melson? Director director jones d wish to add?Yes. this is also directed to ron. Ron, you mention a couple times that the high likelihood that the propertyvalues would increase.Yes.With the introduction of bart. Made the assumption that the cell based on rent, what kind of rent thisproject and generate. Can you explain to me the different analysis that takes place in terms of land value and rent?Well, I think that you are talking about 2 potential pieces 2 different time frames. So the 1st pieces withrespect to student housing project being proposed by metropolitan they are looking to build that today. Sothey are looking at student housing [inaudible] they have concluded does. We have [inaudible] thequestion about the opportunity for future debarment preserving that opportunity [inaudible] physically theproperty on today, if you make [inaudible] you are making it says because we think will make my my long-term if we wait and I will share that the analysis we have done is that based on an assumption of the increase in value [inaudible] that that development that were proposing in the 2nd phase, mixed-use residential project and it will be equal by the time [inaudible] arts and will actually [inaudible] so based on that modeling, that is why we think that if we can have additional [inaudible] we can essentially end upwith close to potentially twi the rent we would get if we were just talking about student [inaudible] project and no other development.I know it is a gas but wha percentage increased you anticipate that rents would increase?What our modeling has been is that you need approximate but a 25% increase in rent above the currentmarket number. Now let me say that when you look at the literature and this is [inaudible] national, we think this [inaudible] arrival is likely to increase 10% May be more so really you are looking at not just what bart brings to value but for the market is at. That is what we have [inaudible] the timeframe for rental values is around the time [inaudible] is getting servicesSo you said 25% and bart would increase by speciesBart would increase maybe by 25% more and [inaudible] come to the market dynamic in terms of howrents are increasing.So you would anticipate there will be a 15% increase in rentAbove current level.A what the timeframe on up?Well, the current schedule date is for the end of 2026 based on our modeling. So 2026 were talk my 7 years from now.Okay. because I know that I think you are making a very strong point for future uses of that land potentialopportunities as well as board direction in terms of trying to 2019-06-07t00:14:11. 8762108-04:00[inaudible] that property is much as possible. So I think if we do not take advantage of that we will neverhave a 2nd opportunity. Will never have a [inaudible] so all of our properties left to figure out how we canmaximize them and get the most value. S am very supportive of [inaudible].Director benny did you want to make some comments?Sure. I had some more just for staff and I think Mr. Carr commented, too. So Mr. The way I think I amlooking at this is vijay's proposal is to add about 100 extra units plus or minus. So they would not bestudent use. So this would be units that would generate the transit ridership that we want. So have you done analysis I do not see anywhere in a presentation how many trips you think this project in total the student, plus would add to that is really the reason we are going [inaudible] we truly would get moretransit ridership you said you have any gas, any estimates?I could not make a guess from the [inaudible] I let jesse answer thatYes. we have some analysis that was done by [inaudible] in looking at our portfolio and being in closeproximity to transit they are anticipating roughly 30% of the residence directly adjacent to transit will beutilizing transit for commuting purpose. So we applied that 30% to the 110 units and or number of residents that would be at that site. I think that could be 2019-06-07t00:16:12. 7620140-04:00[inaudible]So that is 30 residence times 20 trips a month kind of thing. So that is a good portion of 16,000 that wasestimated just for the student when you give them passesRight. but in all fairness I think it is fair to say but we focus on every project [inaudible] obviously, the goal with a bart is developed even it is a project I mentioned [inaudible] all that availment cumulatively woulddevelop [inaudible] which is why coltrane is willing to accept only a 100 spaces [inaudible].Okay. so if I could change the question. That is more towards the positive of the vga proposal. On thenegative side, again I am having a little trouble with the feasibility. I think I heard our plan is we are notgoing to build it until we think it is feasible. So we will wait for rents to go up but is in construction costsgoing to go up at the same time? How do we get rent to go faster than construction cost?The math equation is between increase of the [inaudible] and I think just to explain this and you May recall we were talking about a [inaudible] program. In general, lot of [inaudible] is no longer feasible because [inaudible] when we talk to developers, [inaudible] there is a lot of creativity in the development industry about construction methods because the short to medium-term the only way you can solve the problem iseither the market [inaudible] or from the cost side are able to reduce the cost. There is a lot ofconnectivity and [inaudible] by dragon the construction industry more into the 20% you become more innovative and more cost-effective, that we will see that equation [inaudible] but again I would like to be clear that what we are suggesting terms of [inaudible] is exactly the situation of a number of our [inaudible] that availment is not feasible. So what we are doing is waiting for the development pieceSo what we are really trying to do's breakthrough that 7 story barrier were becomes much more expensivetechnologically breakthrough?It is not just 7 stories but even if you think about a lot of the woodframe 5 stories, those projects are lot feasible at present in much the because of how much costs. This is not just a little rise problem. This is anacross-the-board developing challenge and not just the county but [inaudible] using headlines about[inaudible] most expensive high salary housingYour belief is that we are going to figure out somehow not to be the most expensive ways to build.No. I do not think we will get less expensive but I do think is that if you look over the long-term [inaudible]the other factor in here is cost and to reset get we have recessions. I do not like to plan for recessions.[inaudible] yet I do think that 2019-06-07t00:19:32. 4271934-04:00 between the market and availmentindustry will find a way to solve this. If nothing else [inaudible] because we do not spirits will not sresidential development in the county.Of course if we's reset with the recession we will reset the rents also.True.Okay.It is all very dynamic in these numbers [inaudible] try to get to a place with a numbers lineupOkay. thank you.Okay. director carrDoes anyone else have questions for Mr. Mendelson? maybe we can let him sit down if we do not have more questions for him?Do you want to take a seat?I am at the pleasure of the board. Chair o'neilMy questions are for ron asking the process.[inaudible / off mic]I am looking at your new community benefits and this is for either. How did you come up to your idea ocommunity benefits of medical services for the community. Are you offering free service?Mr. Mcallister I am sorry I can hear what you said.Okay. in your packet, you have community benefits. Medical services for the community.Yes.So, are they free?Are there free? no, sir. he was how do you consider them to be a community benefit?Well, because just as an example the physical therapy, right now I am doing physical therapy for my acl and my left knee and so I go to that and I have insurance. It is good that I am able to go to this because it is in my area my neighborhood as opposed to having to go across town. I mean all of us have reasons at one time or another to seek medical services whether it is physical therapy or counseling or whatever andthose are benefits because the community, the people live there can go there as opposed to someplaceelse.Yes. butIt is not intended[multiple voices] b was I am not suggesting that some of it might not be, butI guess I would point out our definition for the city of mount be when we say community benefit is that you are going to build to yield dual project in mountain view and then we want you to either mitigatesomething or improve the quality of life for our residents. Your definition of community benefits is, what?Just that you are providing opportunity to rent space to an occupational therapist and that helps the community a large? Wow that would be one. Having a very attractive food hall project built, modeled on san pedro square would be something that with the community and the residence would enjoy. The point is to add to the project also uses that could encourage transit ridership. So, it is an amalgam of all those.Have you done projects where the body, the jurisdiction the municipality , you can do this but we wantthese additional items. Sort of what they would consider community benefits?Well, we have spent a good deal of time with the principal residential association in the area the old quad,and we have been listening to them on a variety of matters very definitely including design for example. So the design has changed substantially as a result. So we are hearing from the old quad. One of the thingsButThat is a neighboredOkay. that is a neighbored but I am talk but the legal entity that is going to approve your project. Did they ask for additional items for you to provide for the community at your cost? Not necessarilyYou mean the city of seneca?The city of santa clara.Well, we would love to be able to get the negotiation table Mr. Mcallister. That is where we will benegotiating a long-term lease and the various elements that they feel would add to the project, we know we will hear from them.Okay. so you are doing a long-term lease. Would you is there any consideration of putting age restrictions that a b student housing? Can you do that on a long-term lease?No. it is not going to be limited to student housing, by law. By law, even if you wanted to we could notwhich we do not.But I thinkIt would violate fair housing ordinance.I think the legal question so not can provide a legal opinion but I will say [inaudible] certainly it is possible to do a deed restriction in terms of affordability were the house type is. I believe the point I 2019-06-07t00:25:22. 4404071-04:00 [inaudible] May make the project not finance of allEarlier you were saying there is an agreement with the university . I do not hear the part of thatconversation.So when I was responding to the question about how would bca approach the issue if we had our own onthe other side of student housing project, I was suggesting that legislation [inaudible] they have arequirement that the student housing project has an operating agreement. That is not the situation here.Our understanding with republican metropolitan is they do not have [inaudible].So you are just using the term student housing is an example of what you could do because you said you are under no obligation to build student housing.This will be a project that is designed to appeal to both students and on a workforce housing basis toindividuals who will work in the area and who are interested in a lot less expensive collecting rent because they will be renting by the bed.So for the cmp p [inaudib] you were telling us the cost would be comparable to a 2 bedroom apartmentaround 2000 does it I was confused about the particular time you mention appeared to you have a proposed rental [inaudible] have you come up with a little better idea how to structure this?We do in our pro forma and will be happy to share it.If I May add we have [inaudible] we do have a performance provided by the developer. In that model there was a range of rents but basically in that four-bedroom pot it starts at $700 per month per bed. They also do h some still yearns for example [inaudible] that would be $2500 a month. That is the pro forma they provided to us.Okay. has anybody from the bj looked over and see what student housing costs actually on campus ?In terms of with a university object is for its housing?Right.We have not. I am not sure that is a relevant comparison just from the perspective of you are talkingabout university own housing on campus. That [inaudible] with the university's programmatic goals are there a lot of variables go into itrather than the economic realities.The gentleman mentioned that was going to be [inaudible] affordable and that is why I just wanted if therewas a comparison this you would existing student housing is. Okay, thank you.Director brewing. brewingMy head spinning right now. so where I am kind of confused, we at the board I think we sat there and saidstudent housing then we said, wait a minute. Student housing and increased ridership from universitiesright there does not equate and gets back to Mr. Tran paralysis common. What I am having a hard time with when using the term student housing which really has no which is not really student housing. Let me do a different thing. Because you say student housing workforce housing and I think what I am confusedabout is I can understand describing it for student housing where students share is a must like everybody is renting a room and housing of a common kitchen facility kind of thing so I can understand why you would describe it as student housing, but if I were to think about I just use an example they are. So as a city, I am hiring a brand freshly minted planning person planning departments. That person, if that person went to school but was raised here in the bay area and they are getting a job in my city, which is los altos, and when you look at the availability of housing, that child that young adult I should say, it is like do I go and live at mom and dad's place and go back to my bedroom or what I go and rent one of these things which is similar to what I was doing back in college. Is when I look at that I think about it as workforce housing or it is housing for the young graduate student is coming up here trying to figure out how the hell am I gonna ever going to rent anything. So in that regard, if that is the person, then that does generate ridership because they are going to take the train from here up to mountain view get off at the stationthere and figure out how the heck are going to get down to downtown los altos. Okay get but I am trying to figure out if were on up on the ridership element because this happens to be labeled student housing vs.Just saying it is going after a different demographic and it really is workforce. It is kind of open to anybody.You cannot limit to any baby you just [inaudible] you will end up with a lot of people in here that are they young freshly minted student graduating college or getting the 1st job in trying to figure out how am I going to move in santa clara county that is why my head is spinning because I look at that side and it does meet I think some of our goals in terms of generating ridership. When I look at student housing I amsitting there, it is not generating ridership. So I do not know with this project really is. It is not legallythrough what I am talking about in terms of an agreement with the university etc. What the hell is this? Is it really student housing because I do not see how an agreement we can call the student housing but again if it student housing is not going to generate the ridership it if the totally different model for young people and I think it is a totally different animal.Dir. carr did youAt the risk of moving this forward I am going to suggest maybe open it to the public comment maybe getinto discussions. I think we badgered Mr. Mendelson enough.Do any other directors want to ask questions? Director tranThank you very much chair. [inaudible] in terms of student housing, if I am hearing correctly, what is presented on the powerpoint slide slide 7, where it states that there is 197 student housing units and from what I am hearing those are not restricted to just current enrolled students but also maybe youngprofessionals within a particular salary range.Yes.I guess my question was more into the student part of that with those units. Will these units be embedsreally be available for any type of student or is it just for santa clara university. [inaudible] have anopportunity to apply or even students at my tomato at san jose student in college. With those students beeligible?Absolutely. the notion is not that it would a, b restricted to students or b that have to be students at santaclara universityWhat about barbara college or cosmetology students? What would be their eligibility? IsAs indicated, it could be someone who is not a student at all. Whether does barbara college or anything else. If there working at height if there an engineer and they feel that 70 a month is a lot better than 2500 or 3000, then they would be [inaudible] soSo these eventually will be market rate bedsThey are markedly best but when you do it on this type of bod bases the beds 1st of all it is more densethan if it were regular family housing. That is number 1. Which is one of the issues that the staff has beenconcerned about. But, secondly, the way in which there set up witha bed and bath and each one is lockable by the way and then there are terrific amenities within the project pool, gym and various things but we think they will be extremely attractive to single, young single folks. The fact is that this would be the only project like this in this area.I heard you saying yes I am familiar with these types of housing agreements to my time in the military and the different options at different bases I have stayed at. I just have concerns. I feel like a person of anyage can apply for one of these beds and I guess it would be too bad to intergenerationalco-housingresidents. It is probably a good thing actually but I just want to be sure that if were going to use the word, student, that we really mean it. I do not see any guarantees for even one bed for students in our area where currently experiencing the housing crisis. At a magnified level.The folks at santa clara, the people who are responsible for administration, I think this will be a terrific opportunity for them.That is all the questions I have. Thank you very much.Okay get if they want any more questions at this time, and we can go to the public Mr. Mendelson youcould hang on. We will get back to you but we are going to have [inaudible] if you want to come forward?[calling public comment cards. ] she left?I am here to speak and strong support of the staff option or staff recommendation. As we know at least sofar, the proposed project is not meet the joint development policy standards as well as the, let us face it,are likely trip generation targets. We know this can be really great opportunity that maybe not currently but [inaudible] in 2030. When the santa clara station will be a huge regional note where you will be able totake vga, caltrain all the way to san francisco, oakland and out to gilroy. I really think there is an opportunity in the future for the site and [inaudible] what is right in front of us. Thank you very much.Thank you. is there any other member of the public that wishes to speak on this item? Okay seeing none,Mr. Mcallister.I would like to make a motion. Provide direction to staff on whether to to continue to to continue excessive negotiate with republic metropolitan llc for transit orientated developed vga loan at the santa clara county station par and lot with the conditions that we get clear guidance from the city of santa clara and have staff come back with proposals after that.All right. is there a second?Second. spewsAll right.I am sorry could I get clarifications be was the [inaudible]I am struggling a little bit because the conversation did from the staff's perspective we think thedevelopment of this project is not what the board once you do and I do not know that we would get [inaudible] if we went back and asked for that. I think they would look to us to decide which direction we want to go. Right now, we do not have really feel comfortablewith giving you a commitment one way or the other until the city of santa clara can come along and say well this is what you are allowed to build.I want to speak for the city of santa clara but either of these alternatives would give us in the realm[inaudible] general plan. There might be [inaudible] I think the challenge we have with staff is that as you can gather, we are little bit of a do it this way or that way and so [inaudible] which we want to go we cansorely go back to the city of santa clara but [inaudible] from staff's perspective we will look at staff allterms is still being the better alternative to accomplish the direction we would believe [inaudible] and so if your opinion is if your opinion is we should work with the project [inaudible] and work with santa clara on that we are looking at that [inaudible]Yes. you are still in negotiations but you are given 2 options and the board senses we do not like either ofthe directions, options. So if you are negotiations we would like you to get santa clara involved and getthat tie down a little bit better than what we have in front of us now. With the general manager like toWell, so, there has not been 2019-06-07t00:40:47. 3565749-04:00 there has been informal discussion.There has been not very much informal discussion between staff and [inaudible] about this project in partbecause it includes other informal projects that we have been working on. We realize were coming upagainst a timelinebut so there has not been a more formal discussion between staff and councilmembers yet. So at this point I can tell you with the guidances. It is kind of interesting because there is still there isstill questioning or some issues about that water well which might this debate about [inaudible] civilengineering were hydrology that has been looked at as to what a the options about either moving that wellwhich would cost a couple million dollars or more or some other options. I know Mr. Mendelson andmentioned [inaudible] is still up in the air we just have not had a chance yet and spent a lot of time looking at it but I would say even [inaudible] some people are okay with it. Other members of the community still have a lot of questions. The same kind of thing. Is this the best use of the land? Director carrSo the one thing that is crystal-clear tonight is that this means a lot more negotiation. That we do not clearly have answers to the questions that we have it we clearly do not have a pure understanding and thisneeds to be negotiated. We entered into an exclusive right to negotiate some time ago. I am concerned that if we choose a project tonight that we are no longer negotiating in good faith. We in fact are choosing a project while there is still a lot to be negotiated. This is a free party negotiation we are not the only party in Mr. Mendelson's group is not the only other party. There is a third-party in this and that 3rd parties not represented here tonight. And some of the answers to questions we asked tonight were we will have aconversation with the city of santa clara. Perhaps if the anxiousness or concern about the motion is that weadded the city of santa clara perhaps we pull that out and that we are just getting direction to stafftonight. I am okay with hitting on perhaps a couple of issues or topics tha we know need some real conversation, really need to work out but to that I heard everyone talk about his affordability and transit ridership. In particular, the workforce house inside. And not solely on the students I burn the workforce side. And I am comfortable with just simply saying that we need to continue want the exclusive right tonegotiate and then negotiating timeline and these are topic areas that the board is particularly interested in that need a lot of work.Okay.I think the 2 issues that director carr just stated is exactly what I have a concern over and what we arehearing as well. The current project as proposed, I do not think is going to generate the ridership we arelooking for with their tod debarment and were so kind of at a certain level affordability because we have in fact [inaudible] and the percentage is certainly under as being proposed right now. So if we had to make adecision today, it would be easy for me because were not saying were not going to what is propose. It does not meet with what the spirit of what we want fro our properties with the spirit of jerry get but I agree with mike lakes we do not have to make a decision today and we could gather some more information. I think hopefully the messaging has been clear to Mr. Mendelson and what is already been stated, I think theproject as it began to focus on student housing, we can certainly prioritize students by the way that youmarket the project and how you advertise himself so could have been filled up by I have percentage santa clara students. But if I think what we are hearing from and maybe Mr. Mendelson, what you are hearing from us today, is that both not restricted to students and quite frankly we do not think the students are going to generate the ridership that we are hoping for. So maybe we have to start shifting the focus that is part of the negotiation need to be had. Maybe is awkward with a student housing we are thinking whereyou were thinking but it is going to be more focused on workforce housing. Something that would actually generate the ridership that we have been looking for. And I think that opportunity can still be had to discuss that and I do not think we necessarily have to say today let us choose the staff alternative and move forward with that and yet we can 6 some time to see this conversation tonight has helped either side of the conversation to move it forward. So if this motion is clear enough for staff to be able to moveforward with I can support that and I I think we had [inaudible] has time anyway. It goes to august 5 ofthis year.I think what we understand your saner we heard your comes. Let us go back and keep negotiating get to[inaudible] before the august 5 deadline.Yes. I do not know if you had a 2nd on that? I can support the motion.Thank you. just a few comes but I think director bruins turn the light on for me a little bit. I think she might be right. Especially, as director morales is and, do not market it to heart a student housing yesstudent housing across the street but, director bruen has made be rumor when I came back from grad school relative to my lived in a little tiny duplex with 3 of us and I was in the room that the one off the living room the door's account of open like this. So I can see living this sounds like it is actually better than that. And I was tech workers so just coming out of school you do not want to go too crazy on your rents.So I can see that it would actually be interesting for workforce in these kinds of units and then he 45passes if you use them correctly, that might be an enticement to actually give it to the workforce people. If you tell me I am going to get a caltrain pass and I can live in kind of the school not too expensive place, and might actually come live here and right to caltrain when bart comes ride bart to work. So I am beginning to become more of a believer. Maybe not all the way to the 16,000. Probably going to write itmaybe to the you specially could get if you purposely are trying to target those 45 passes to people thatare really going to use them, not students they hope might go, take a bunch of leisure trips, you might get20, plus, a few leisure trips out of its. So you do not get to 16,000 but you do get better than I was thinking. So, I start off being sort of negative on this idea but I am getting more positive. Is what I will say. I think the motion is a good idea because again I was on the fence. I cannot really pick one over the other and I think that is the message were giving us we do not want to pick tonight to and I think alongthose lines also.Director peralezI am sorry to add another I think the be beds with fiber and 55 residence we should be striving to domore. I understand each bed is [inaudible] but that in itself is [inaudible] to director mcallister's point, that is can a benefit you do not have to wrestle around with. I would agree the other benefits but the retailcomponent, the therapy, that is a benefit itself. But these are sort of to you can add this will go each one ofthese is a direct benefit to ever gets a pass. So I would love to see that 45 go a little higher and I think thereason why I like to see the percentage of affordable go up is because when you hear the numbers you arealready putting out 7 800 for one of these units , like the fact that is affordable in the valley is crazy. . So that is where I think the actual affordable requirements percentage that gets there is so important thathoping we can help a person to go up if we get there.Okay. any other comments from any of the directors? So in light of the fact as I said there has been a lot of informal discussions with santa clara but not really been structured yet. And I am hearing lots ofdifferent comments from staff and members of the community and councilmembers. So I think we are kind of in the same place in the informal read as the members of the board. And the vta staff. So I am hoping I can talk to her city manager but what our discussions because she has been very curious to know what ourthinking is. And hopefully, we could come to some meeting of the minds. I am in favor of workforce typehousing. Because that is a very I know the city of san jose is working with santa clara university on someworkforce housing. I know has spoken to some senior members of their administration. They are havingreally bad problems right now as I know some the other local universities [inaudible] and committeecolleges and things like that but they are losing people right and left and it is extremely concerned about it as they tried to continue to build a university that attracts young staff people or they just can attract them.So I think that is a better direction to go and I would want us to look at also I know retail seems to be the big debate these days. You cannot force retail in the idea of a medical clinic with something different?Something away to activate but [inaudible] this is a real gateway air get everything is can ago [inaudible] and I do not know if you are looking for something fun to do when you get out of forget I do not know if you go to your physical therapist right there. I do know also I think the university [inaudible] because there medical campuses [inaudible] it is not full service. I think that was something. So I would want us to to continue how do we activate that as part of the direction and to kind of evaluate. How big with a medical clinic be or would there be other ways we could provide some other uses particularly at the ridership goesme of a lot of people coming to that area. So, are we ready to vote? Okay.The motion on the floor right now is to continue the negotiations with republic metropolitan for transitrelated develop project vta only and on santa clara's park-and-ride lot with a condition that bj gets clearguidance from the city of santa clara that is the original motion to writeRight. I think perhaps more of an emphasis on workforce housing.We could get its guidance [inaudible] to do that.Okay.Ron, did you get all those comments[inaudible / off mic]Okay. all those in favor say, aye. [chorus of ayes. ] opposed? I think we still have a quorum. Okay, great.Thank you very much. So that takes us to our item 8. 5. Authorizing the general manager co to execute acontract amendment to the existing contract with a county of seneca office of the shop to extend the term of the current contract for a period of 6 months from July 1, 2019 through December 31 one 19 and to increase the approved contract amount by 8 million to enter $19,136 for new total contract amount not toexceed 74 million for her thousand summer $42. [inaudible] is here to provide a quick reportThank you honorable chair and board members. So just to provide a little bit of background and a quickoverview on this action item. Currently, bj has a contract with the sheriff's office the sheriff's office provides supplemental law enforcement services on and around our system. And we have had this relationship with the sheriff's office since October 1990. In the contract is currently set to expire at the end of this month. Several months ago, per requirement procurement process vta question proposes for rfp for submental loan forces to be provide for [inaudible] and various bart stations. That are about to come online. I have been advised by our procurement team that the rfp process is ongoing and they are targeting the September board meeting to return with a recommendation for approval of a new contract or contracts. So while the process continues is important to ensure the security is provided for on our system as it has been the last 30 years. The sheriff's office provides but we define a supplemental lawenforcement services and the services are in addition to law enforcement services provided by local lawenforcement agencies for the city and towns within the santa clara county where they operate. Vta purposein retaining supplemental law enforcement service would ensure immediate response to services on our system and provide security for customers and employees and those moving about our system at a level beyond what was being provided. So currently the sheriff's deputy bonded to calls for service on all ourright rail trains and buses are paratransit vehicles at our headquarters at our light rail yard and bus yardsas well as at our downtown customer service centers are light rail stations or transit centers are parkinglots and all of our almost 4000 bus stops. The call for service they get includes are not limited to assault and battery including sexual assault, human trafficking, indecent exposure, public intoxication, individuals under the influence of controlled substances, suspicious packages and persons, robbery, theft, recklesssuicide and vandalism. The sheriff's office also conducts investigation into accidents that involve our light rail train and buses as well is paratransit vehicles. In addition [inaudible] in these there is also help us prevent these types of crimes or incidents from occurring. Providing the service, as you know and you have heard rgm say most of time, but it smells safe and secure remainder in one part of a such we ask that you authorize to extend the current contract with our sheriff's office and for new contract can be issued for the ongoing rfp process. And with that happy to take any questions.Okay. general counsel is going to make a statement. Without objectionSo I am making a statement on behalf of dir. Chavez and director they have a non-interest in thisparticular item they are not recently [inaudible] are allowed to vote on this. As supervisors on the board ofdirectors [inaudible] receive a salary in addition. They receive aper diem for meetings [inaudible] is stillconsidered a non-interest.Thank you for that clarification.Okay. so are there anyquestions from the board of directors? We have a motion and 2nd. Are there anymembers of the public that wish to speak on this item? Seeing none, all those in favor say, aye. [chorus ofayes. ] opposed? the motion passes. So that takes us to item 9, 1st item is 9. 1 general managers report goodThank you very much and mdm. chair and good evening. 1st I would like to thank all of the volunteersworked at the charging station doing or rode their bikes during our movers and shakers bike to work day last month. Project your new screen are some of the photos that were taken at morning and we had a great fun thanks to mayor tran the current and supervisor chavez who joined us and not only were wethere but also the [inaudible] bicycle coalition which we have partnered with over the years for this prograso again, thanks and we look forward to many more of you joining us. Councilmember was also the next,we are refreshing our vj. Org website and currently upload a lot of information to a beta site which we have been testing since the beginning of the appear our plan is to launch the new vta website later this month with key features that are centered around user testing, feedback and data such as getting real-time transit information, planning, reading our native blogs doing capital projects and more direct access information about our governing body and the committee. We recently surveyed users of our beta site andfound that 70-75% have given t site a 3-5 stars for ease-of-use and visual appeal so if you have not tested it, please, do so because were going to be switching over making a permanent very simply but after the site goes live we will still continue accepting feedback and continue to refine we wanted not only to be a portal at what vta does and how we can [inaudible] but also be used as a resource by members of this community and beyond. So more to come on that. Well, summer is here again and so both our summeryouth fast. The youth passes now available and valid from June to august providing unlimited rides on vj bassinet for only $70. Providers ages 5 through 18. So please, we ask that you post that information on the website to share with your constituents and we will be happy also at our technical service center and at [inaudible] offices to sell those passes to the us the summer youth passholders can make their hashtag vta summer, more fun. Moving along, something great happens today to the bay area metro awards is on verypleased to announce that this morning vta, atv and mission college were honored by the metropolitantransportation commission and the association of bay area governments, abag for the joint forceinvestment apprenticeship program could is a mouthful get the word program honors bay area people programs or projects that are advancing or underdevelopment, [inaudible] and transportation in theregion. [inaudible] trains coach and operators mechanics overhead line workers and track workers andprovides mentors and career ladder and has been to maintain a strong and growing workforce at vta. So this recognition is critically program because of the 1st time are nationally recognized program is receiving an award. So I am extremely proud of the work that labor and management have done over the years to help our transportation workers advance in their careers. And yet, in addition to the jw I program, we alsonominated center jim bill for a bay area award couldis work to build the transportation infrastructure andadvanced transportation [inaudible] and the sen. Accepted his award at abag 2019 gen. Assembly meeting and opened it I like to offer my collaborations and gratitude to both sen. Bell and to all the folks at vta involved with it program success. A>> [applause]Super. let us get more of those. On the larger topic of mobility, we are going to be expensing a little bit ofpain but after the rain comes the rainbow. Our overhead contacts system is going to be rehabbed and wewill do that in 2 phases of construction I am good as kim [inaudible] to come back and for [inaudible] chiefoperating officer to join him it is a very important project. . It is one that time is due to make these changes and they are just going to give us more detail on the phasing of the project. So with that I will turn it over to ken.Thank you very much. with a very very brief presentation. I am in a covered 2 quick parts of the projectone I am going to go over what the scope is and then I 9 is is going to walk us through some of theimpacts and outreach. You heard us in some of the presentations were made but are transit improvement program. Sustainability and rehabilitation is the focus of a lot of her work it that is just what this is. This is the [inaudible] campaign for rehabilitation of our light rail system. Ocs, it is our overhead contact system.We are going to be rehabilitating it is from the downtown area. For really 3 main objectives. One is to make sure that we are liable. That we are safe and that we are doing things in a plan way. All of that helpsthe system be more efficient and improves our performance. So this 1st work is intuitively it would make sense but it is the older part of the system and it is the single contact walk on 4 segments also an area that has a lot of automobile and pedestrian traffic. It is in the downtown transit also the slide represents the area that this work includes. It is really from all of san carlos, near the downtown transit mall and all the way up to past our younger yard on [inaudible] if you were to see what we are actually going to be replacing it is hard to see from the ground but from the right side there is contact wire. That is for the ocs actually touches when it uses our system for electricity in the downtown transit mall, we have recognized this is [inaudible] not to place where it is going to fail but a place where it needs rehabilitation. Were going to preemptively replace all the wiring the section and we are going to be also increasing some of the safetyof the transit mall. Right now, if that wire were to break there is no secondary wire to hold it up. There issystems to shut the system up but nothing to hold it up your we are going to be adding another set of wires to hold it up so there is a safety component with this project as well. These photographs show what we are talking about. The transit mall you will note there is only one wire and some components along thesystem. Everything in the transit mall that touches the [inaudible] will be replace. Preemptively in a state of rehabilitation instead of in a state of chaos is that if were to break during certain [inaudible] theconstruction contract for this work is about $5. 5 million. The project costs is $10 million and we will becompleted by the end of the year. It is worth noting that the budget that you approved earlier tonight as another round of this in a larger fashion along the rest of the corridor. So you will start to see a campaign as an intentional effort for rehabilitation before things become critical. I guess is gonna walk us through now some of the service impacts and the outreach we have done.Thank you can. so as ken has noted, there will be a series of shutdowns. So what we have identified inorder to take care of the downtown work are 8 we can shutdowns. They will begin this weekend. Yay.[laughing] so June 8 and we will conclude September 7 of this year. I think the biggest one we want to note is that we would like to stress of the 9 day continue shutdown in the transit mall downtown. That is a9 day shutdown beginning on July that is a 9 day shutdown beginning on July 27. We decided to do a 9 dayshutdown to have the least amount of impact to our customers. Having shifting opening the station one day closing the station another day, opening it. We just thought it was just easier just to shut it down without continuous 9 days. I also think it helps with the pricing of the project as well to allow thecontractor to have a continuous work zone to be with work continuously. Through that time, we will havebus bridging in the bus bridging schedule is there. How we will do that. And one of the things we are doing is we are to use articulated coaches to be able to do the bus bridging kit we are changing the 522 frequency during that time period to be able to pull those resources over during that time period in our outreach and medications team will communicate that to the public. So part of our communication strategy that the team has worked on the schedules are on their between the construction noticing. Those will be similar to the residence live within a quarter-mile to expire. Our signs are rail stations [inaudible] will also display our information concerning the bus bridges and if the stations are closed. Writer navigations will be created. It will be our standard a-frame at the station that are expected to close. Email notifications, social media and of course door-to-door communication. And that concludes our presentation.Are there any questionsJust a quick one. I like to think of things in terms of budget and money flow. So this looks like an apsleycritical project to do. But I think this is money that is in our operating budget that we then take out and wesay, goes into the capital maintenance. Is that not part of that?So one of thestrategies of our campaign of rehabilitation is we use federal funds. The sexual categorycategory a federal program that is rehabilitation we do have a local match but this is outside the trans-budget but outside of the operating portion of the work. So there some bus bridging element that are involved in it but the actual construction is all grant funded. To the local match. So it I not from that money that we put into capital maintenance projects then. It is 2019-06-07t01:09:52. 2524675-04:00 [inaudible]It is different from maintenance. So repairs and preventive maintenance are part of the operatingmaintenance budget. This part of the transit budget. This is all part of the larger budget but this part of thecapital program is grant funded. It is part of the budget approved today. It is a transit budget [inaudible]this a part of that category.Okay. thank you.Any other questions? Mr. McallisterHow major these renovations last for how many years? ItYes. so the system that we have for light rail system is about 30 years old in downtown area. So what wehave done is we have done a couple faces prior to this. Was some areas where structures were for taking were attachments were fatiguing. There were some areas in the yard were that were [inaudible] it what you are releasing now is the 1st part of intentional campaign as our equipment reaches its kind and of itsuseful life. We do evaluations who had a consultant come out and did an evaluation. We had it scannedelectronic scans for the wire and did some tests and prioritized it in this area. So the question is how often it will have a contractor every 2 years contract will be one for rail went for ocs and we have already done alot of [inaudible] so as you would maintain your car, we will need to maintain our system and this is the 1st of a campaign . I use the word campaign because really [inaudible] and needs to happen within every two-year budget to have an expectation of priorities already aware will be putting a resources for these capital projectsI think to answer your question more specifically, there May be segments of this rehabilitatio programwhere the original wiresSo in this contract to dat none of the overhead wire those put in 30 years has been replaced. This contract will be the 1st to replace all of the wiring. There will be repairs to do portions or slices or upgrades of some the components. This is the 1st one to replaceall the contact wires.What is the length of it?It is a couple of miles. I would have to confirm it with other documents but it is a couple of miles,, 2, 3miles.So does that mean the other 43 miles is eventually can have this work done?It will. would it means is this section is most vulnerable because you will see it is a single contact wirewhich is different than the rest of our system which is a simple catenary tension system. So this is an olderpart of the system and it is a system that is more susceptible to where and so we have done a scan and wewill continue to do scans every year that identified all the hotspots so we are in process now of doing anassessment for the next portion of work. It will likely include larger spans of full auto tension sections which are about a mile. To a place where you will not want to go [inaudible] so as I know spoke, we are evaluating how to best balance the impact to the community and the transit [inaudible] because you do not want to be doing work over pedestrians. Then the work itself. So will this be among the whole line?Yes. Will it be tomorrow? no. Our job is to plan out the appropriate amount of work in each budget cycle to keep us ahead of this problem.So is this length of 2 mile 2019-06-07t01:14:11. 7097876-04:00 is too early to determine if it is going to be 2 miles per year?It will probably. we have actually asked to you approved earlier today budget that is more than [inaudible]for the next two-year budget cycle because we are believing we really want to get the rest of the corridordone so this a focus on the transit mall. That part of the transit mall that is a single not even tension it isreally [inaudible] fixed tension wire. We think because of the age and the next wave all the rest of guadalupe bay. So the next budget cycle much larger to take care of the same age equipment that is a different kind of wire.Thank youAny other questions? directorIf you could make my office where so we can put it in our newsletter and also social media.Absolutely.If there is no further questions? Yes I like to move to another item. So there is no questions on this item, Ithought it would be important to bring to this board some early information regarding what was known as the mega measure which is now been called the pastor bay area. There is a lot of activity amongst the general managers in the 9 county bay areain addition to a separate group that is looking into the possibility of a ballot measure in 2020 of a ballot measure in 2024 major infrastructure. We started out as rail. Maybe expanding into transportation. I have designated scott haywood to be our point person on the typical working group with the other transit agencies and asked him to give you all a just a rundown as to where we are. Things are moving very quickly, but we just got looped in a few weeks ago. I thought that before a lot of the information started to be presented publicly that you all of these new let me know andwe can all work together. . Scott.[inaudible / off mic]It would help if I was on now that I am on I can go. As mary just mentioned, coalition has been formedbetween [inaudible] and silicon valley leadership group and other business leaders to explore the viability of a 9 county regional transportation transformational transportation measure. The focus on regional transportation. The measure be targeted to approximately 100 billion in revenues over 40 years could as mary mentioned is now as pastor bay area. The coalition recently asked the major transit agency including vga t work as group to consider which projects [inaudible] they are requesting the transit agency provide this information by the end of june. As mary noted this is a very tight talent and staff is working very closely with transit agencies on this request. As staff mediates encouraging the transit agency take a regional approach and folks on projects and programs to seek codis entrance ups that would helpsignificantly in improve the transit system in santa clara kind of said include transformational projects on and to connect highway 101 85 and [inaudible] corridors as well asLet's intermodal facility. present with a highly 150 project to transformational project, that connectsdirectly with a highway 101 corridor. Additionally with the transit agency is considering a project helpmodernize the system such as improvements to existing infrastructure as well as fleet replacement. Finally,there also looking at programs promote equity such as for your discount affairs and bus service for low income communities and students. In addition to work the large transit operators the coalition is alsoseeking [inaudible] rail providers, mpc, caltrain and other transportation professional in terms of thecoalition sketch, the planning to condu a a big outreach [inaudible] as well conduct polling to determine public interest for a possible transportation measure they hope to have a final plan as was projects and wells type of [inaudible] by the end of their or early next to be the measure will then need to go to the state legislature for approval in order for to be on the ballot in November 2020. For nextep's for vj staff will continue collect early ideas for transformational projects. Mary has been collecting ideas for 101 for boardmembers staff will be contacting the technical advisory committee representative from each city the county to collect their input. Bj will provide an update to the board after June 21 meeting. I would like to conclude quickly by restating that the coalition has given us a type thailand to provide a list of projects andprograms. Staff will continue to work with the other major transit operations to meet the deadline and thatwe are very much appreciative of the efforts throughout the coalition.Thank you. I just want to make a quick point on this. One is that I did think if they do a measure that is inperpetuity I think the projects are not going to be really compelling because I think it is can be difficult toever make sure we did them. So 3 things I think we should be focused on. One, we have to make sure that the organization that receives the money does more than give the county a passing glance. Such a big portion of the tax money will come from the county and frankly, the amount of resources that come back to this county from mpc, we will be a donor county and I do not think that is a good situation. So to me,that is kind of number 1. Number 2, I think one of the challenges that we have had with a measure that we put forward in the past is that they been so focused on capital investments that we have had 0 money for operations. So the idea that we would not have an ongoing source of revenue for operations to mewould make it less preferred to be part of anything region because we did not have a way to been able to provide revenue for services. I think that is a big mistake. Then, lastly, I would just encourage that we think about goals set of projects. So your point about 2019-06-07t01:20:56. 2103252-04:00 I think highway 160 was transformational. I do not. I think it is beautiful and much but is the bottom line. We need to do it because it is very congested and it is very unsafe. So that is a priority for other reasons and I think whatever the internal mechanism we want to use, I mean, the projects we want to think about in thecounty have to be lined up for the investment and resources that we already have. Anyway those are somethoughts good and I would like to see a framework for the board to be able to take a look at on the 21st. Ijust projects but actual framework because this issue about how we get how monies divided even though we want to be regional, his really what I am trying to make sure of. That the long-term interests of theentire community benefits from our interest being met in a much more strategic weight that I think reallyhappens. If we do not havejim bell and dave and sam but really that combination of [inaudible] where he is, nobody would care. Okay. You are adorable.Thank you.Thank you very much those are helpful comments. As a matter fact, scott May have said this but I want toreiterate we are also working with the representatives from each of the cities in the counties on our[inaudible] so we can come up with projects but yes, our emphasis has always been look at this from a bigger perspective. It is the entire region. There is freight involved. This public transportation involved in there are commuters involves. And 80 have a 90% of people drive so what is going to help our county connect to this larger region of being a better mobility position than it is today. We went most congested inthis area. So clearly, more than just the one transformational project we have a compendium of projectsthroughout the entire network. Mr. McallisterYes. are you going to reach out to [inaudible] you said you were to reach out to tac and one of the thingsthat [inaudible] a lot of the cities felt left out and neglected and I do want to see that happen againbecause the sentiment out there is we are not going to vote for something less we have a better idea aparticipation. . So that would be very important work in that way.We completely agree. we would look to do more time for more outreach for vj. [inaudible]Okay. also along with the comment about goals, I think corridors should be more another way to look atprojects because we have done one thing I do not like is the city of mountain view this goes back to myconference of mobile project. We need to look at corridors instead of everybody just [inaudible] here alittle project. Are not integrated they do not really help us. If we go forward and [inaudible] our currentmeasure b we have a lot of projects but they do not help the region at all to reduce greenhouse gases, reduce congestion and gets people what is our phrase moving. I would like to see 2019-06-07t01:24:21.4476086-04:00 when you go back to them work at that type of level.Yes. we have already started that.That, to as an excellent recommendation and I just want to very quickly mentioned that when we wentthrough the regional metro 3 process it was project but then the caucus, the bay area caucus is the thatdetermine the project and I believe that is going to be the same situation this time. Given that the statelegislature is going to vote on authorizing mpc to put this on the ballots. So we will do what we can but I just want to make sure that I could manage expectations as to what actually can finally get there. There isgoing to be a lot morework to be d.Dir.I was going to add something but [inaudible] maybe we can get a confirmation that we do not have to runout of the building. [inaudible] officials are on it. We will be on notice. So I just want to echo what director shabbos with same. I think those were really really important comments and director mcallister, Iappreciate looking at this. No this little project without the project but corridors. I was having aconversation with earlier in regards to the foothill to foothill corridor or the 280 corridor. The east-westconnection is terrible in the valley. So I think there is opportunities and we know that there are corridors that go well beyond just the city boundaries and is just a bunch of cities again one of projects so we want is the project. Verses, looking at a corridor and how we actually connect people better and where are we lacking I would agree with that and so it echo both the comes were made.Thank you one or comments.So I know we are not trying to brainstorm and I know the [inaudible] I just want to put a worm in your about one thing I would love to see transformation or not, but I think would be big, which is to finallydredge the bay and open up the [inaudible] and get [inaudible] up to open or san francisco. Just throwingthat out there.[inaudible / off mic]That is a good one.Okay. thank you very much scott. Now I am going to move to item 9. 1 a mdm. Chair and just mentionedthat the government affairs update in the spirit of us getting us concluded at a more reasonable hour, we are just going to refer you to the information that is in the folder as a relates to where we are with our government affairs activity both in sacramento and washington dc. Next is item 9. 1Before we do this we have to go to public comments. On your report if you do not mind so [inaudible] ifyou are still here would comments I think to make on this portion of the report.Thank you for the time [inaudible] how many illegal aliens from ottawa about law-abiding could I am talk about criminal ones [inaudible] when he killed lori larson in the district I live in. So again I do not want toprofile just the fact is jac [inaudible] just the facts. Be good to know I do not thing the public understands how many illegal aliens there are and are impacted so that was my 2 sons bit on the 2nd issue ,, cindymentioned [inaudible] on the government affairs support, they mention the appropriation. Bills are coming due. Please try to stick and 20 million for the eir so we can get that going and have a project ready to go in 3 years when I finally agree on infrastructure bill. Thank you very much.Thank you.Thank you. so appreciate the things on the website. [inaudible] something went seriously wrong there.[inaudible]. My suggestion to you is going look at [inaudible] and maybe do something similar. On thepicture that you had with replacement of [inaudible] I actually remember I was in st. James's park and a few stand between the track, [inaudible] and you look at the wire, the wire is supposed to go like this[inaudible] the wire was absolutely straight. He was badly installed initially. What happened, when the wire is straight [inaudible] and gradually it will destroy it. [inaudible] the wire is supposed to go like this.[inaudible] so the wire does not wear out too much. So I would go around [inaudible] on the metro region, [inaudible] that is going to conflict with [inaudible] I think we need to start having our friendly chat with [inaudiblAll right.So thank you very much. the next item in my report is the update on the silicon valley rapid transitprogram. Dennis radcliffe together with jorge martinez to presentThank you. jorge will give an update on phase 1 and I will give a brief update on phase 2.So I would like to begin by bringing the project general status of where we are because it has been a longtime coming. We have reached a point where bart has assumed jurisdictional control of the right way.Which means they are now positioned to begin phase 3 testing. We in fact have started phase 3 testing is somewhat limited fashion. And I will get into some of those details but as of this week, we have [inaudible] has begun the [inaudible] testing. The train control systems and multiple bart teams have been maltmobilized events we also have [inaudible] teams looking at the network system. And somewhat of acautious stop start because we are getting into a minute resolve some critical work that remains to becompleted from these 2. And that is related to the [inaudible] system and some of the other controlsystems. With those issues were known for their coordinated with bart [inaudible] so our focus now is to finish that work in parallel impacting [inaudible] activities. We are targeting go into a revenue operations orBut is in September towards the end of September and the users that does support our current plan is justoperations before the end of the year. So I mention the critical [inaudible] ramping up the strike teamtechnical resources of the contractor and pg expert the strike teams are putting at the disposition of bart and will be there to activate [inaudible] as they engage fully into their testing. Similar strike teams[inaudible] will be heavily engaged in completing are aspects of the work, but again, we are now taking a backseat [inaudible] and that is part of this jurisdictional control. A contractor is working under the contractor insurance program which requires them to work [inaudible] bart has different protocols. So ifyou toggle back and forth and get our work done and there worked on, that would require a little bit of acoordination effort but so far we have been able to get through this 1st week very well and in fact, the planfor bart to do a train control testing phase 3 was to energize the system yesterday. Because we havecritical work is associated with [inaudible] we actually jointly agreed to delay that until tomorrow. I have atext from my team as a p. M. 7 pm side the work was completed the contract [inaudible] and bart is ready to enjoy [inaudible] so just an example of the kind of detail coordination we will be doing from here now.The good news is out when we did re-energize the system so far it seems to be stable in the mitigations additional protection so far today has been tonight has been stable. We do need to monitor that closely.The remaining work that we have on [inaudible] there was an area we identified as a gap and that requiresome additional risks to be resolved. That has been engineered 9 as part of ongoing efforts [inaudible] the other critical component is the system was not really being delivered in operable maintainable fashion. So we have [inaudible] which is consolidating the 5 different [inaudible] into a single server that processes more of a centralized command control feature for bart to be operated in the center which will make it a farmer operable system. That program or reprogramming an additional hardware has already beenprocured to the program is well underway . We anticipate finishing at work here in the month of June andinstalling this in the month of july. In conjunction with [inaudible] getting operating center up and runningwhich involves them actually doing a hard cut over from the project communication card cutting that over to the bart operating center and bypassing our local control center. So those are all major milestones with a little bit of detail but again it is an example of the close coordination will have to have the next 3 months as we approach september. The remaining work the pta has which is critical of course is completing a work for documentation associated with not only the documentation of correction of deficiencies as we continue to identify them as bart identifies them but also preparation for the system certification, which be vgaprepares the bulk of the documentation and will get to bart in the form of a submittal late in the 4th quarter. Again, supporting the operations before the end of the year. We also a significant amount of trains to deliver bit that in itself is a logistical challenge because of the availability of the trainers and contractors of the ability of those trainers and the availability of the staff on the bart site for us to train. In the limitations of facilities. But again, we have that scheduled, coordinated lots and lots of challenges on a day-to-day basis but it is moving forward and we are tracking to have all the completed to support the end of this year. The critical bart work which is in front of us now I mentioned is for them to actually be able to complete the phase 3 testing without our impacting them and their ability to do that. They have tocomplete the hard cut over I mentioned a minute ago of the network system. We purchased some equipment for them to install in the occ facility that we delivered to them 1 may. The occ was not cut over and installed and up and running as was originally anticipated within the 30 day window but we have been issued by bart that is within their ability to proceed with phase 3 testing. Primarily because there somefiber optic linesthat they have been able to utilize could we do anticipate that cut over to be completed by the end of this month and we are very actively engage in supporting the success of that bart cut over.Following that, [inaudible] has a challenge which is to getting to operations and training their operators to run the system and have them get [inaudible] of course we need to deliver significant amount of trainingand owner manuals are mentioning moment to go to get to that level of pre-commission activity. Again,that something that we coordinate very closely. . There does not seem to be any fatal flaws. We have most of the work ahead of us clearly identified and we are tracking a very very closely. In addition to that, in the 26 of this month we are having a risk matrix refresher. That will be jointly with bart vga and efta projectmanagement consultant the pmo. That is a refresher a previous exercises we have done this will be focused on looking at the risks we are have mitigations for for the work at of us as well as identifyingpotentially any new risks that would come up during this next phase where [inaudible] now is jurisdictional[inaudible]. So should we I defy any additional risks will be of course implement it and tracked veryclosely. So in a nutshell, this was the game plan to be in operation by the end of the year. We are now into the right side of this diagram whereBut has control. we are in a support role. We are still finishing up work. It is work we knew was comingand we will plan to execute that work without impacting this next phase. And by the end of September we should be in a position where we are one step back further and just supporting the 2019-06-07t01:41:47.2166668-04:00 pre--operational phase. With actually run trains dynamically and testing the schedules and making sure their operating [inaudible] the project is delivered. So with that, any questions?Thank you much good I will be very quick. Now thatBut is going to be be the primary agency that is can be pushing this project forward, how often are thosefolks out there on the tracks were at the station testing? I would like to askfor the public in my community to a better understanding because we been in a little bit of a gray but it seems now we have reached a pivot towards the destination. Can I tell [inaudible] folks are working on it expeditiously?Absolutely. the expeditious part of it was done quite a while ago and we have been working [inaudible] onextended schedules. We have been doing a lot of night work. The month of May was actually a verycollaborative time between us and the bart team because we were actually given equipment to install at the occ [inaudible] 2019-06-07t01:43:16. 0042864-04:00 continue addressing some of the deficiencies and discrepancies on the system. We also made provisions where they could actually be there over ourshoulder and start to become familiar with our system and start analyzing, if you will, for their quickstartof their face maybe it was a very tight collaboration. We had a work schedule? Our track allocation according to our work rules and they pay backed on all that. So we were currently adjusting to our schedule could aware now in a position where they are in charge and we are adjusting to their schedule. Asyou heard a minute ago talk about the [inaudible] today was a perfect example we attract allocations a week ago forBut to do their thing. we have identified [inaudible] is a critical scope item that needs to get address but we had a workplan. They allowed us to actually get the truck today so we could turn it on and install theprotections and monitoring. They are going to go ahead with her work tomorrow. So the answer yourquestion directly is we are out there and they are out there every day on the trackway itself, you will not see bart folks and are folks out there jointly because of our different operating rules. So we are going to have to toggle back and forth but we are always out there together and I would say the last week we have had dozens, literally dozens of crews out there for multiple disciplines the entire quarter.A very encouraging. thank you very much. I think that is was neat this committee new stations open up at the same time could another work that has been done is be done how our valued workers out there aregetting [inaudible] ou [inaudible] without type is work done [inaudible] is it done and segments are done both stations all the way down?The answer is it is within the entire 10 miles of our corridor and it really depends on the activity anddiscipline because while we were used to working by disciplines and we have the ability to segment thecorridor, and otherwise, energize parcel, deenergized, that is not within the part [inaudible] so it is either hot or not hot. On the hot we can be out there. But we can be working on the other facilities but it justjuggling. Again, we coordinated very closely on a daily basis. We have a very long meeting. We have beenallocating track on a weekly basis we preplan activities and coordinate the priorities activities and locations. So changes every day. Throughout the entire corridorOne less thing if you go back to the slide with I guess the flowchart, I want to ask you, sir,with your bestestimation of professional judgment, looking at the 2 columns there, 2 sides of the work, between the 2agencies, do you think that the work that needs to be done on the right side of the slide will be more challenging and difficult than the work that is already been completed on the left side, talk about the agency's abilities. I am talking about the gloves and boots type of work that is being done out there?Should I feel greater comments knowing that it is going to be less challenging work being doneall valued, do not get me wrong but is it going to be less challenging work being done at this stage going forward compared to the states that have been completed?I throw little bit of my opinion and probably get [inaudible] tomorrow but as a construction guy it is alwaysfar more challenging me to build it and get to the technical challenges of building it in with the metrosystem especially because of the complexity of the control systems, as some of the board member saw in previous [inaudible] is out there. Looks finished and smells finished and people should be wondering why it is not running. Recent summaries because the control system [inaudible] are extremely complex and the or comments associated getting integration of the systems and getting them to talk together and work together is far more complex frankly, in the [inaudible] and that is why this is a sound challenging phase.Bart is still going forward is to verify and validate that they are doing their due diligence but we have done the system integration. We have got the documentation. We are finding discrepancies but are notsignificant discrepancies and we are fixing them as we go. The purpose of the 1st bubble of [inaudible]part is for them to continue testing the system . We tested for functionality and for compliance. They tested for failure which is not to say they are going to break it but they need to put different scenarios together to challenge the system to make sure it is designing it is operating as designed. So it is a different kind of testing but the amount of testing they do is just to satisfy themselves and to be able to document the due diligence. The 2019-06-07t01:49:09. 9888827-04:00 [inaudible] operations bubble is it varies from metro system to metro system. You are dealing with a very sophisticated operations in the bay area for decades. The operators 2019-06-07t01:49:24. 2697019-04:00 [inaudible] but this is in training people how to run trains but this is training people to run [inaudible] very specific to the extension project and it is not [inaudible] so I would say the worst is behind us but I am just a construction guy.Thank you very much. I appreciate very much. Thank you.I just have a quick question given that what has to be done in this phase 2, do you think it might beaffected by whether as we get to the following: season 4 rainy season anything like that?The answer would be we have been impacted recently by some of the 2019-06-07t01:50:07. 7464637-04:00 unusual weather storms because we have a workplan that you cannot do under what conditions but the critical timeframe would be exposed to weather is passed and the remaining work, is what you would look at in the fall and winter net to not be impacted by weather. That is part of running trains in inclement weatherWell, I know [inaudible] it is up to bart now more or less. I am still an optimist I know this numbers the outer limit of our envelope. To get this done I am still hopeful maybe bart will do something [inaudible] sothank you.If there is no further questions, dennis will share the phase 2 status.It has been a while since we have given any update on phase 2. There is quite a number of thingshappening now that are worthy of know. I will go through this very quickly get this is by way of background. As you recall, in the spring of last year the eta and bart agreed to explore a single bore aspart of that we agreed we would explore more thoroughly the opportunities for tracks side-by-side which is a bart preference. That concluded with including the single [inaudible] the preferred option in ourenvironment told document both agencies approved in April and received a record of decision the following june. Since then, bta and [inaudible] have have explored a number of options for conferring a single tunnel side-by-side in March of this year it was determined by staff of both agencies that a slightly larger bore could accommodate a center platform with tracks side-by-side. As you mightassume, a larger borediameter does come with some additional costs for the tunnel with some additional excavation of mud inside the diameter but it also creates some opportunities. So the 2 agencies have conducted a number of workshops to exploi those opportunities which I will just touch on here tonight. But just generally, I just want to describe with this configuration will look like this these 2 cross-section the cross-section on the leftdemonstrates the configuration the center platform and a track on each side of the platform . Also indicated there is the concourse above the platform. This is a conventional configuration for the bartsystem although in this case, it is in a single tube. On the right side, you see a cross-section that depicts the train waves or tracks between the stations and again, you can see the tracks are side-by-side it has aconventional emergency egress pathway central to the between the 2 trains and also simple corridor that will also aid in egress. The elements of this diagram on the left side,, the light blue is the platform area.The dark blue is the concourse area. Between those 2 will be conventional vertical circulation elements such as stairs and elevators. On the right-hand side, the cross-section this is different from the conventional bart configuration. Is similar to the configurations we previously had before,. What you see on the right-hand side, the dark blue rectangle is the vertical circulation elements from the surface we are ticketing can occur. It will go down to the concourse level and go to the left there to reach the concourse and then down to the platform in the light blue area. So, it is depicting the light blue and dark blue . . We had some discussions and presentations to the board in public about the point of safety in thisconfiguration point of safety is located at the concourse level inside the tube. And that is a conventionalarrangement within the bart system now in terms of an operating [inaudible]. Before I go to the next slide I just want to say the opportunities that the larger bore creates is you can see the large void below the trackway is there. We were able to devise some concepts for locating some of the operating equipment in that void with inside the tunnel which will save us some real estate acquisition at the surface. Also, above the train lease between the station there is a void roommate be able to locate some additional equipment such as ventilation stands and the like. Again, voiding some real estate acquisition. At the service. Right now, what we are doing is trying to nail down the details of these different configurations so that we cancommit to a preliminary engineering effort focused on those configurations. I will not go through all thosebut pick up a few. But we have mobilized our general engineering consultant. They are coming into theproject office now. We are on boarding them by significant transfer I am engineering information developed to date it on this configuration which is essentially a 55 foot diameter plus or minus tunnel. 24 foot wide center platform could a variety of configurations for elevators and escalators from the surface.We are exploring possibility of reducing further real estate acquisition associated with maternal deflation staffs although not quite clear to us yet. And some the equipment located in the tunnel [inaudible]substation equipment and ventilation equipment. In addition, we ha had some meaningful discussions with bart about some potential changes at the santa clara station area. Configure very similar to the airportextension and that again May save us some real estate acquisition but we have not perfected the operationconfiguration. And next steps,right now what we are trying to do is get a clear direction to our engineers for preliminary engineering. We have a very short [inaudible] so most of the things we need to do with our engineering commitments are happening this month and what you see is 2020 schedule. Now the schedule is based on producing the conventional products that fta would expect in their capital improvement grant program. As you know, we are still pursuing the expedited project delivery program and that program doesnot have the same requirements articulated. Although, we believe [inaudible] May require those.Nevertheless, will be ready to make an application for the program in fall with conventional engineeringand development that is preliminary and sharing work product. However, if [inaudible] is prepared toreceive a proposal earlier based on their comments will be able to do that as well. And with that, back in my presentation.Are there any questions ffor dennis? Seeing none,mme. Chair,Mme. chair, for I conclude my report I just want to note that the information on ridership and security are in the folder. In the public binder and with that that is what I have for you today. Thank you.Okay. that takes us to the chairperson's report. A make this as quick as possible. 1st I like to report that I had the honor to recognize and congratulate vgas 2018-19 leadership academy graduates on May 27 male more than 40 employees of various departments of bta participant in a 50 month program they attendedclasses that are offered by mission college instructors and bta section manager experts. Workforce a moment [inaudible] leadership program provided knowledge skills and competencies that are essential to performance improvement for 6 essay navigating changes to guide bta in the future. And I would like tosee us to continue to explore more opportunities to continue to allow her workforce to professionallydevelop the next faces of their careers. Next I like to report that the bta working committee met with ourcounterpart at the bart headquarters last friday, May 31, 2019. We received updates on phase 1 and 2 as was the operating of maintenance agreements and I think was good to sit down and same room with some of our colleagues and have some very fruitful and interesting discussions on particularly 70 items that dennis just talked about. Our staff plans to bring the oh nm update to the full board at our next meetingscheduled for June 21, 2019. Watch out for the email for the board office concerning the meeting time andlocation. And so then, one of the other priorities for the chair was looking at the activities of the board andso I would like to call on board member mcallister chair of the ad hoc board enhancement committee toprovide the report on May 29 meeting.Thank you chair. this is our 1st meeting of this particular ad hoc enhancement committee. And we are going to be taking a look at the governance and processes of the board and how it might relate to other board is made up. In terms of the being on the bta, the chair terms, tenants engagement board meetings how often they meet committees, how your appointed to committees. Staff reports how they are presented to us. And so those are some the guidelines that we talked about looking at. We are glad glenn hendricks was elected as our vice chair. We valuable his input at this predicament we also received an update on the history of the bta board. The directors and structure we received a review of the vga citigroup boardmember selection process. That is how we some us in the smaller cities are up here get we received a review adopted guidelines for appointing members to the bta board of directors and policy advisory committee and again that goes back to how people are appointed or elected here. We conducted aroundtable discussion among committee members to sort of get a sense of what each one of us had with concerns and direction we want to go. And how we can make this board more functional, more effectiveand help us be more engaged I responsibilities as we tried to balance and the other obligations we have from other elected office. In the next schedule ad hoc committee meeting will be sometime to be determined. So there is a lot on her plateOkay. thanks very much. for that report. So, for item 9. 3 are there any items of concern or referral to theadministration be good seeing none, that takes us to 9. 4. Which is the minutes and summary. There in theor folders in the binder but we have a request from Mr. To speak on this item the did he leave? Okay well we do not have to worry about that. Thank you. Okay. Are there any announcements? Seeing none, noannouncements? I think we can adjourn.Just for a quick 2nd. I failed to mention at the nmi report that 2 of my executive team members areretiring at the end of this month. One of them is still your chris augustine who is the yes. Chris is the director for the office of planning to balance and he will be retiring at the end of June together with jim [inaudible who left a few minutes ago and jim is the deputy director for operations planning and programming. So I guess we will take the opportunity as of June 21 meeting>> [applause]To give them the official recognition but I just wanted to mention to those of you who May not be[inaudible] thank youOkay. thank you for your service everyone and I did not think I picked that we be getting out of here early but that 11 pm prediction was pretty close. Meeting is adjourned.