Please stand by... for the valley transportation authority valley transportation authority valley transportation authority board of directors meeting5:23 PM>Valley transportation authority5:36 PMPlease stand by...5:37 PMPresent.Present. thank you. let's do the pledge of america and to the republic for which it stands, one nation,under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.Any changes from my colleague colleagues?Vice-chair chavez?Supervisor cindy chavez: thank you, with the contract with atu, I would like to place that on consent and with thanks to my colleagues and the labor union and the staff that worked with them.Great. any other changes to the agenda? F not, if we can have a motion to approve the orders of the day.5:38 PMMember liccardo?Were there any public speakers?They will speak at a different time.Okay.Okay. all in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? okay.Now to item 2. 2. Awards and commendation retirement commendationGood afternoon, tonight we have several retirees. One joining us is alfred lozano, coach operator, for 29 years of service. Thereby earning the prestigious two million miles. Alfred provided 29 years ofdistinguished public service and was an asset to vta. Congratulations, alfred lozano. [ applause ]5:39 PMWe would also like to congratulations several who weren't able to join us today.Recognizing sheri barnes, office & timekeeping technician, for 38 years of service; service worker, for 36 years of service; anthony gray, coach operator, for 32 years of service; operator, for 31 years of service;cabuag, coach operator, for 31 years of service; sukhminder dhaliwal, service worker, for 31 years of service; for 29 years of service. Resolution of commendation expressing vta's appreciation for five outgoing5:40 PMThank you.[ applause ] .Now we are going to item 2.2. an action item. It's to adopt a resolution of commendation expressed vta's appreciation for five outgoing vta citizens advisory committee members.5:41 PMMay I ask -- you to come forward.And the community: stephen blaylock; chris c. Elias; william hadaya; ray hashimoto; and connie rogers.Ray hashimoto for 17 years, connie rogers 20 years. Give them a round of applause. They have been working tirelessly for providing services to vta's transportation. Each serve as a highly effective proponent of transparency nd accountability and good government. Now, therefore be it resolved that extend their appreciation to ray- and connie and with thanks and best wishes and enthusiasm. Let's give a round of applause. [ applause ]5:42 PMThank you to everybody, the employees and cac members for their wonderful ervice.We have item 3. Public comment this portion of the meeting is reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 2 minutes. The first person is scott mace followed by yan, and brittany and scott. Thank you. Public speaker: my name is scott mace. I am in favor of better bus service. I own a car, but I choose to get around by bicycle and walking and public transportation. It saddened me to see the deterioration of the vta bus network over the yearsthat I used it. I would like to urge the board to set up a workshop to discuss improving bus service with your allocation of measure b funds, thank you.5:44 PMOkay, yan trong? public speaker: my name is yan. A climate activist for four years. I moved to san jose ayear ago and working for livable climate. I have taken public transit all my life. And in the east bay, in commuting to san francisco and 15 years in north bay. In south bay public transit has been by far the worst in the bay area. Even compared to the east 3 bay particularly in oakland and berkeley which can also be high traffic. In limate action, I want more cars off the road, but how can that happen if vta keeps cutting service for the past 20 years. Because of the climate crisis, vta must step up its bus and light rail service. Also, most if not all public transit mobile apps depend on google maps and there are hugeproblems with google maps trip planner. Vta must assign more staff to the google maps on a regular basis.We could not leave it to programmers. I urge your program improves. Transit needs to go up, not down. To everyone here, I am a public banking advocate. We need more banking in order to fund this. We also need to fund the climate crisis. Given the task, everyone has to step up their game. Thank you.5:46 PMThank you very much. we have monica followed by brittany crocker followed y basil and teresa. Public speaker: my name is monica, i'm a student at san jose state. Today like other speakers I want to talk about how transit can be improved here. The board of supervisors called for immediate action to address the consequences and causes of global warming and to me you are miss aligning this situation. There are ghg emissions in my community. We need transportation for young people who are being impacted by this already. Many students are taking transit mode to campus everyday. I would like to you discuss significantly improving the bus allocation. Over my past few years I have spent a lot of time talking about this cause. I would like to see what is going to be taught to what routes you are going add. It used to be 30% higher before. I think ridership can be high again in the early years and since the population has grown. I would like you to participate in the transit week from September 10th-13 and take transit for a full week or a day at least so you can understand why we need this change. Thank you.5:48 PMBrittany crocker, followed by basil, by james, tessa, brian ruiz. Public speaker: hi, my name is brittany. I live in campbell. A full time vta commuter. I rely on vta to get to work every morning. I want to emphasizethat reliability is the most important thing for me as a rider. If the buses aren't reliable, I can't get to work.I'm sorry i'm a a little bit nerves. In the past month # # # nervous.5:49 PMThe buses aren't working. you need to at the very least give a service alert so that riders can plan nd prepare and know in advance that their bus isn't going to come. More importantly, i'm under the impression that the reason why this has happened so often lately is because there is some bus driver shortage. I don't tend to understand the details of what you need to do to make the buses run, but if I had to choose from increased frequency or increased reliability, I would much rather you change the schedule, make the buses come less often but more reliably so I know when my bus is supposed to come will come.To summarize, i'm here to ask you three things, if you are going to cancel a bus, please issue a service alert so your riders can plan for that and know what's going happen. Two, if there is chronic shortages ndrivers, please change the schedule. Don't just randomly cancel buses, and three, if there is anyway I can follow up on this, let me know. I don't know how this works.5:50 PMThank you. public speaker: hi, I want to ask the board to set up a workshop for discussing measure service through measure b allocation. This would benefit my community in a number of different ways. I am leading a local neighborhood association and the cambry neighborhood of san jose is what I call transitdeficient. I know this service would improve the quality of life in many ways in my community. First of all, Iwouldn't have to drive a car. I can just take a bus down to the light rail and then to work. Then it would improve opportunities for young people who live in the east side of the district which is less well resourced than the western cambrian pockets nd will allow students to get to better job opportunities and also to beable to spend their free time. Last but not least, as a housing advocate, I often come across push back to increase density in the residential neighborhoods. No. 1 is a spill over of parking traffic from these densebuildings. Now, in my own neighborhood, I see that in the apartments. I don't have enough parking so itspills over into single family neighborhoods. Addressing this by adding more bus service will a lay a lot of those fears for people. Thank you very much.5:52 PMJames? public speaker: yeah, this is james. You guys have not made an announcement when bart iscoming down here. When are you going to make that announcement? Also I would like to know when the October changes are going to be. I heard you guys got a $25 million from bart, is that true or not? What else? When are these 2019 service changes going to take effect for the bart? I think what you should do isschedule the service changes earlier when art comes down here. I don't know when bart's coming down here many5:53 PMThank you. tessa followed by brian? Public speaker: I wanted to appreciate the valley transportation authority. You are doing a lot better job than the city of san jose. You create public comment at the beginning. That is so essential to democracy. You are doing a good job and I appreciate it. The thing is that greta, the climate activist from sweden who is here from new york is saying that the politicians have failed us. That is why the young people are acting up. We are the generation that they are acting up against. The thing is we are oing things wrong. The vta is doing things wrong. You already have been notified that the grand jury has said you are doing things wrong. We need to do things differently. The city of san jose, she is one of the persons doing these things wrong in san jose. She is not responding to demands. When we come to these meetings, we should have a response. We are taking effort to be here and you are not evenresponding to what we are saying. I want a response to every one of the people that take the effort to be here. The effort which i'm dealing with, appreciate that because the city of san jose doesn't even havethat. The issue is bart to santa clara. It was always ring around the bay. It wasn't redundancy around the bay. We do not need to go around to santa clara. Especially when everybody's calling for better transit. We have great transit between iridon and san jose. We know it's a way you handle the whole measure b. The silicon valley eadership group and for jobs and economy. Public speaker: I want to speak in favor of buses and transportation. Personally I bike to and from work. But while the transit service in the area tends to be mediocre during commuting hours, it's outside of commuting hours. For instance, I 3-4 times a week do a bus round trip. However since we meet only on the evenings and weekends, the bus does not run evening and weekends. And I like to go on a hike and it's not running on the weekends. So I can't make use of these routes that exist. So in general, I end up biking to and from hese places, but if it's at night, on the weekend, there is no protected bike lanes around. So it's at 45 miles an hour of traffic. So, others seemlike they are typical of many people who want to be able to get around and live their lives outside of just getting to and from work. But the transit system is in the area does not really permit that, so it seems like there is steps that the vta can take to rapidly improve transit in these areas and make more bike lanes so we are that much closer to having a transit system that enables us to live our lives. Thank you. [ applause ]5:57 PMBrian, followed by marshall. public speaker: my name is brian. I'm a therapist who works here in san jose.Like many of the speakers, I would like vta to set up a workshop to discuss the measure b service. The reality of the matter is good public transport affects most of the working class. It is a lifeline to a betterquality of life. As a therapist in this county, I have noticed there are significant woes to a crisis in this county. The fact that they can not get out of their homes causes depression and anxiety. Santa clara county is one of the richest in california. It is an embarrassment that google is in our backyard and yet our vta is so primitive. As one of the other speakers stated, public transportation around the bay is much better than the south bay, the heart of the silicon valley. So, I would again like to urge the board to improve bus service through reallocation of measure b, because it benefits the 3 working class and when the working class is taken care of, the rest of society is much better. That is just true. There is no argument against that. It is objectively the case. Thank you.5:59 PMThank you very much. marshall and eugene bradley. Public speaker: hello, my name is marshall, for the santa clara city council district 6. My family moved to a space where I access to dozens of bus lines and it's really benefited every sector of my life. I went to school that has a direct express bus from my school.Deanza college. Along with all of my success is with vta, I have also seen a lack of success with my peergroup. I went to lincoln high school and I would see kids counting their quarters trying to take the bus everyday. Why is it that many people who don't have access to cars, why do so many people have to work so hard to take the bus home, especially children. Why do children have to work so hard. I stronglyencourage you to create a workshop to figure out how we can allocate funds from measure b and to make it easier for those who are having difficulty and making it easier for us to be on the right ath and for thefuture. If we started giving students free bus passes, what would his city look like. I want you to consider that, consider the kids as we work with you for creating a workshop. For santa clara declaring a climate emergency, it is your duty to work your hardest to make ure that their future that they saw for this county is fulfilled. Thank you.6:01 PMThank you very much. andrew boone. Public speaker:Good evening, board of directors, my name is andrew boone, also a candidate for santa clara county. I ask that you consider this workshop on your agenda. You have hundreds of agenda items passing everymonth, but talking about a half cents sales tax that we are paying that we don't want to be paying that was ill conceived in its design is not reasonable. You need to talk about mistakes that happened in the past. The total amount that that generates $1. 85 billion in 30 years, almost all of that money going to widening highways for more rush hour traffic and building more highway interchanges for more traffic. The highways, all of that is for more cars, something we don't want. You continue voting year after year, month after month, dumping hundreds of millions and billions of dollars into building infrastructure to carry more cars. That is exactly the opposite of what our policy must be. So please convene this workshop and let's start talking about fixing the taxes that we have made mistakes in the past and fixing the highway ndendless expansion and come up with multi-transportation that everyone can use, you are excluding everyone in this county including myself which is hopeless and never able to have quality transportation.I'm going to san francisco if this stays the way it is. Thank you.6:04 PMThank you. tom mayor. public speaker:A couple years ago I was here. I was unhappy about the length of time it takes light rail to get from north sunnyvale to san jose. The train stops. The train does not have any priority at any traffic intersection. I was told at that time that it was a mistake. Maybe there is a wire disconnected or something in santa clara.Now, people have told me that the city of sunnyvale because they are unhappy that you went to downtown mountain view 25 years ago refuses to give you permission to have priority at the intersections in sunnyvale. Why should a light rail with 150 people on it stop and wait at the driveway to a mobile homepark? I have waited 10-15 minutes every time I come downtown to san jose. If you could increase your speed 20%, you would reduce your labor costs, labor costs of drivers 25%. It's a money maker. If you put traffic signal pre-emption in their buses and I know it's expensive to do that, but you will save money. I'm a retired engineer, I just can't retire. You will save money doing that. Is there any way I can get a response to my statement?6:06 PMLucas, if you can speak with this gentleman.He will meet with you. thank you. You have some very great points.Next speaker, please. public speaker: my name is rod. I live in willow glen. I would like to request that you remove a bus stop. Why do we want the stop removed? Multiple neighbors and I would like to pursue comprehensive traffic measures to prevent accidents and slow cars down. Also the bus stop is redundant.This avenue has had an unusual amount of accidents. Anybody there is waiting to be maimed -- or killed.It's preventable. The ridership is low. Michael and e-mail to our city council member. Per the e-mail only one person regularly uses the stop. To respect her usage at the stop, I talked to her and asked her if she had any problem with this stop being removed and she wrote to me saying t wasn't burdensome at all. In order to make sure that I checked on this, I checked the distance to the other stop just to see howburdened she would be. It's 495 feet to the other stop. 198 of my steps. It's just one block. I have a video that I made that I can show that. Finally in michael's e-mail, he said if we take away this stop, it will be a quarter of a mile. If we look at the stops immediately before, the distance is 1200 feet. If we look at thestops to have them removed, I walked it about two hours ago. Please help us with removal of the stop.Thank you.6:08 PMThank you very much. eugene? good to see you. Public speaker: hello, this is eugene bradley with siliconvalley transit users. I have been going to these workshops since about 2000s. What I can't help ut notice is that slowly but surely in the last two years, the buses have been reduced by 30%. Where the workshops where between bart and highway expansion has not taken care of grid lock. In fact it shows the success of any highway construction project or highway expansion which is the 185 interchange and the highway 101toll lanes particularly the new diamond lanes. We have not heard how successful such lanes have been in leading grid lock. Simple answer, zero. That said, let's get a workshop to increase funding for this bus service which is badly needed throughout this county. Think about how much you could consider forincreasing bus places for north county and south county and think about linking the downtown and then to city college. Think about how much bus service you can have in north county and west valley. If vta has the soul to increase this service. Show your soul, vta, let's get this bus service increased now. Thank you.6:10 PM[ applause ]Can I have the next speakers get in line. Public speaker: I can assure you hat traffic's life pre-emption is working on first street. And we've just been to a meeting when we discussed the vtl proposing the time changes. The other day getting out of river oaks I missed a train. You know why? [ off mic ] the reason, I don't know to mention what was said earlier about google. And google is just a dumb computer and what you get out of it is what you put into it. Last week, someone told me I want to go to mexico. She says i'm coming down n bart and how do I get to the airport on bart? I said use the phone. So I tried it. She did notbelieve what google told me. Actually you can try it right now from here. It will tell you go over there, catch the light rail, go there and walk 33 minutes. But it's not google. Gary's got the iphone. We tried and it went nuts. Anytime we go to this and gary, it took 15 minutes to the airport. The problem is somebody at vta's need to follow. It's not google.6:13 PMSorry about that. I represent the deanza students on the board of trustees. I'm here to speak on the measure b funds. A large amount of students in the area are extremely dependent on vta. We are fortunate enough that we have the eagle pass and 3 able to give vta access to many students but with thecancellations with the immense commute times and kind of inconsistency in transit it has become less meaningful to our students. In fact a third f our deanza students spend a third of their day commuting everyday. Transit does really dictate our lives. In support of reducing economic inequality here andassisting people who have been displaced and being deeply affected by the housing crisis, and kind of countering the fact that the county is responsible for displacement, they have their own transit for thesecompanies. It's time we move toward something that is sustainable and as innovative as silicon valley prides themselves to be and to prevent the disruption of higher education which is necessary for economicstability and for people to be able to afford to live here and to strengthen transit and reallocation of these funds, 3 thank you very much.6:14 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: thank you very much for the opportunity to make a public comment tonight about something that's very important 3 to me and that is public transit because I exclusively use public transit and by bicycle to go everywhere that I go. This past weekend I used it to go to alton and back. I echo everything that people said tonight about the issues we are having with decreased bus service. We are not going to decrease bus service under any sort of valuable thing for transit usersbecause we are already to the point where we are not honoring that first and last mile and where we do, the days are so short those commuters can't use it. Senior citizens and others, a little bit more, but you have to think about when day is kind of short, you have to not only get somewhere but also be able to get back home. So I believe that we really need to start looking at making more changes in the allocation formeasure b so that we can actually have the kind of service that people need. Buses that come at regular times. The buses that don't come, isn't a problem on my regular route because in the next 15-20 minutes another bus comes. I'm not going breakout in tears. But I did spend time in saratoga and the uses were on an hourly run. There were recorded announcements on the buses for the next stops. There ought to be a way to go in there and change the software to pronounce the street names correctly. Thank you.6:17 PMCan I also have lena come to the line, please. Rob, please come forward. Public speaker: rob mains frommilpitas. I'm for the transit project. I think they are passing out the flyers right now. I'm not approaching you from the board, i'm approaching you from your elected constituencies. Some have already investigated advanced transit options and this could provide more information to you as to how you want to proceed inthe future. You May also be of the like ind as the county supervisors ho have declared that we have a climate emergency on our hands and we need to act boldly and swiftly. You maybe just pissed off at the oilcompanies that have been lying for the last 30 years about global climate change. Regardless of the reason, you probably have a reason to contact the city council of milpitas and urge them to adopt, say yes to a memorandum of understanding that they have had since March 19th. They have not moved on that yet, and with your support, perhaps a call, an e-mail, a letter, a conversation perhaps with our representative rich tran here after the meeting. Something to indicate that maybe this project is worthpursuing. That would be appreciated. Thank you for your time.6:18 PMTonya? public speaker: hi, my name is tonya, san jose is my home. I was born and raised here. I went to san jose state and now working full time, but I recently reenrolled back to school to san jose city college. I hate driving. We need to start encouraging people to stop driving their cars. We can't continue with more highways and infrastructure. I'm asking for a workshop to reallocate measure funds. Thank you.6:19 PMThank you. next speaker, please. Public speaker: hi, thanks for having public comments today, board of transportation. Forgive me, I was late. I May repeat some things that have already been said. But here inour valley, 64% of our carbon pollution is from cars which is flipped from other counties in the nation which is 40% which is carbon from cars. We have too many cars on our roads already. Eisen rolled in lincoln lawschool in high school and I thought I would drive and park and they told me it is not safe to do so. Let's prevent more cars from coming here to san jose and reallocate the funds.6:20 PMThank you. [ applause ] next speaker, please. Public speaker: hi, my name is neil. I just graduated fromschool. Cupertino is an investment in our value. It means a car becomes a necessity to 55 survive. I'm not able to own a car. It takes 15 minutes to drive without traffic. The transit ride is more than an hour-and-a-half with no direct bus line. Today I have the privilege to be able to borrow a vehicle and it took me 45minutes to get here with the p. M. Rush. Expanding the highways will cause more traffic. I don't want morecars. Let's have a discussion on how we can actually give folks the options they want. Nobody here wants more cars, so, let's get that ball rolling. Thanks.6:22 PMDeanna? public speaker: my name is lena crabtree. I'm not from a jurisdiction that you represent. You didn't appear on my ballot. I'm here because like someone who spoke earlier, first day of school, my middle schooler who attends school outside of the city where I live, we were waiting for the bus and tenminutes after it was supposed to come, it dawned on us that it probably wasn't going to come. I called customer service and they were very helpful and explained they have a terrible driver shortage and as a result randomly certain routes won't be served. But ten minutes after that bus was supposed to come,that's not very helpful. What that means is that for those folks, I have options. We were like everybody else. We got on the road and we drove. But for those who don't have the options like I do, what it would have 3 meant is the next bus wouldn't have the enta ability to make it to the next train. If you miss onebus, you are not completely sidelined for two hours. I don't know anything about you. Do any of you ride the buses? It's frustrating because I go to other communities, travel vacations we've taken this year and in all cases we used the bus systems nd they are so much better. Everybody rides them. There is this idea that just for poor people but we are never going to get bus service if we just serve t to one population. If you don't ride the bus, I encourage you to go do it. [ applause ]6:24 PMThank you. sergio lopez? public speaker: hi, I want to give some brief comments. I represent the west valley area. I grew up in campbell. When I was growing up, my folks are working class. We didn't have the cars. The way I got around was y riding vta bus line. 3 unfortunately what has happened in the last decade is many of the areas have een cut and concentrated in those areas. I want to focus on those areas where the lines have been cut and make sure we have robot public transportation at work. I see it as economic justice at all and one that we lost in the past couple decades.6:25 PMThank you, sergio. not seeing anybody else, we'll go to the ext agenda item. Item 4, we do not have anypublic hearing on tonight's agenda. No. 5. 5. Committee reports (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter) welcome, marty.6:26 PMGood evening, board members and dm. As a reminder, the citizens advisory committee also serves the watch committee for 2000 measure a. The committee takes t's cac roles and 3 responsibilities seriously.Since 2018, we engaged in the following activities. Onitored measure a updates, and Commissioner Independent compliance audit, reviewed the compliance audit, conducted a public hearing May 8, 2019.And at our last meeting we approved the 2000 measure a annual report for 2018 and the publicationstrategy. To inform you the annual report for conclusion for the 2000 measure a tax dollars were spent in accordance with the intent of the measure. Now it's available 3 to the public in paper format and social media and the vta website. Also at our last meeting, we welcomed five new members and I must comment about staff who had an initiation and we had a very good meeting and it shows that our new candidates are very bright and with a lot of questions. Additionally we had a roundtable discussion on new member onboarding and I have asked the vice-chair and member noel tibo to head the on boarding process. Tonight, we recognized and thanked the outgoing members william medaya, ray hashimoto and ray wasn't able to make it. Working with ray for nearly 17 years, I want to publicly express my appreciation for him, for his wisdom, inputs and loyalty and work and commitment. Thank you. That concludes my report. Any reqquestions?6:28 PMThank you very much, marty. that was excellent.You're welcome.Next item (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (hendricks)6:29 PMHello, thank you. at our august 8th pac meeting we received information about the 2015 and 2016 measure b bicycle and pedestrian capital projects. But I want to focus my comments on one item that we dealt with. We received information on the santa clara county civil grand jury report noted the civil grand jury requested a number of responses from different agencies. The items on the pac expressed concern and insisting on community engagement with projects and issues in santa clara county. The pac requestedthat agencies with the management work with the committee on any potential changes to enhance thecommittee's input and further integration of the pac with the board of directors policy making process. So as we move forward we are taking a look at this and we'll keep you nformed and any changes we might have to go through with ga and you guys. There is more interest from the pac n being more involved andon the decision process you go through. Our next meeting will be on the 24.6:30 PMThank you.That takes us to the chairpersons' report. (verbal report) on the finance committee.Thank you, chair. the inance committee met august 15th. On the agenda there were many items, three of which are on the consent calendar. 6. 5 and 6. 6 dealing with real estate and transaction and authorization,and 6. 7 insurance renewal report and the information is in your staff report.6:31 PMThank you very much.Board member liccardo will report on the committee of the capital program committee.Thank you. the capital program committee met august 22nd. We recommended approval on staff'srecommendation. We received a very extensive presentation on the fleet and current ondition and life cycle in mid-life overhauls. That sounds too close to home. These factors are given the approaches that hey are ending their life and will receive direction. We also received next gen information and discussed the advantages and disadvantages and the technologies that can operate n the corridors. The rfp for the next gen transit study will be next month. Having the final report will be presented to the board during the first half of the next year. And related to the first two items received on potential funding for the current lightrail.6:32 PMThank you very much. vice-chair chavez will report on the safety, security, transit plan and operations committee.We had an opportunity to discuss four items. One which we talked about in great detail was the computer aided dispatch automated vehicle and talked about its timeline and got staff information on that. We alsodiscussed the light rail coupler project. Mr. Hill, we asked him to give anybody a tour of those who would like to get a view of all work the mechanics d. He's very enthusiastic. I would highly recommend if you haven't had an opportunity to do that. Vta's service for moss and information enhancement efforts was another item for discussion and we talked about the transportation agency plans and staff gave us a really good deep dive on all the work that we need in order to pass federal standards relative to our local safety programming and planning. Frankly I think it's a really good opportunity. The staff reports that will come out of that to help us understand the safety that we currently have safety mechanisms and what those will look like in the future.6:33 PMThank you very much. so I will give the g & a report. The governance and audit committee met today.Notable actions are being reviewed and responded to the 018 civil grand jury report and their on this agenda and recommending to approve the responses to the grand jury report and received the i. T. Risk assessment project and discussed oversight for the advanced communication systems in the cad and the hotline and discussed the capital projects from the assistant controller. So that will take us to itemchairpersons' report. (verbal report) will provide a report n their august 30th meeting.6:34 PMThank you. our meeting was last friday. We received information from consultants on the diridon concept plan. This report constitutes a new design. There are now four designs that are being discussed and robustcommunity outreach plan for this fall. Rivas from the city of san jose provided an update on the diridon station area and the master plan network. This also included details of the proposed mixed use development in the station area which was provided by google rpresentatives. The proposal includes 3,000 to 5,000 units, rail connections and 500,000 square feet of retail and active uses and 6. 5 million square feet of office. For every square foot of office that is going to be built or planned, there is another square foot of additional use. Google plans to submit their project to the city in october, and it is important to note the reason that we have a whole station area plan is that google's property comprises about 1 third about the diridon station area so renovating the entire area. This is the first time both areas were heard at this meeting. The next diridon meeting is scheduled for 40 November 15, 3:00 p. M.6:36 PMThank you very much. that will take us to item item 6. 1 through 6. 7 and added one more through the orders of the day. We have a couple of requests.6:37 PMRoland, do you want to speak to the consent agenda?Public speaker: google was supposed to speak and none of the agenda was posted until recently. The first thing I would like to ask is that we resume having those jpab meetings at city hall in the community rooms, and that this meeting is recorded. Now, with regards to the recent actions by this city of san jose, san jose quite rightly wants to assume responsibility for the entire 20 mile caltrain miles within the city limits. I would like this city to assume leadership for the both area plans and that will relieve the vta from having to move all the staff down to san jose because we can use the san jose staff to take care of it.Thank you very much.6:38 PMThank you very much. okay. So, roland, you wanted to speak to item 6. 6, and also jason you wanted to speak to item 6. 1 which was put on consent.6:39 PM6.6 has to do with giving authority to the general manager for added land acquisition. I'm all for expediency and i'm for transparency. There needs to be some kind of mechanism for whatever land transportation we are proceeding with are documented somewhere so they show up on an agenda somewhere. It doesn't have to be on the regular agenda, just put it on consent agenda so people can look at it. There are people with disadvantaged communities that don't understand english. We really have to be transparent as to what we are doing. I guess, you know where i'm going with this. Basically, I want tosee an agenda from somewhere. Every time there is a transaction because I can assure you that the general manager is not even here.6:40 PMThank you very much. next next public # next speaker, please. Public speaker: I will be brief. Members of the board, a little bit later tonight you will be getting a presentation about some of the efforts that are happening regionally at the state level to try to increase the amount of funding that goes to local transit agencies. A lot of the funding will be to try to fund large mega projects, but also a lot of the focus has been around how do we reinvest in transit core services. I'm really happy that labor was able to come to some agreement so we can move forward and start providing the services that the santa clara county valleytransportation can serve. One of the biggest conversations is how do we invest in the corridor and parts of the county where there have been some of the service cuts. As you werill hopefully approve the agreement, I hope you know there are more coming and you should be thinking about how to manage these best. Thank you so much.6:41 PMThank you very much. before I ask for a motion, evelyn tran, our general counsel would like to note for anon-agenda item on the consent agenda. [ off mic ]6:42 PMThank you very much. do we have a motion and second to approve the consent agenda?So moved.Mr. Mcallister?Yes, I wanted to comment on 6. 5 and 6. 6. I was looking at the agenda tonight and noticed a lot of connected items that we are looking at. We are looking at eastridge allocating more money to move the project forward to allow this general manager to bid on projects within a percentage criteria. Also we are looking at 7. 3. Which has the light rail being possibly suspended and 6. 4 which talked about this project and 8. 1a which is faster bay area which is trying to develop projects that are effective throughout the area and move more bodies. And it's i'm thinking about how we can move people faster. I'm always concerned that we do our duty and I just want to mention that I will not support 6. 5 or 6. 6. I want to register that vote, and that we need always to look at 3 what's best for our residents as a whole. To the group that was talking about today about reallocating measure b, look at measure a, there is a line in there that states funding and operating cost for buses. There is something there right now you May want to look at. When we talk bout quality and justice, people constantly say, that people in san jose say we didn't deserve it, we paid for it. North county cities, west county cities are also contributing and I would think at some pointcontributing more money into that area. What benefit is that to us? We have to contribute to all areas to make sure there is a regional system that works for all. I ask my fellow board members to reconsider orremember when in February we had our workshop that we need to do something different. We are still moving down that path. It's an opportunity to revisit it before it's too late. I heard the mayor talked aboutthat they are looking at projects to do options or the existing light rail that is coming up and I would like tosee options and opportunities move forward and faster before we start allocating money to a project that we know has limited value to the majority of the county. Thank you.6:46 PMThank you very much. were there any other comments? Okay. All right. So we have a motion and a second. So we will note the negative votes for member mcallister for item 6. 5 and 6. 6. All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? thank you very much. Thank you for those comments.We will start with the regular part of the agenda. Item 7. 1 was already discussed.Now to item 7. 2. Information item - receive an update on vta's bart silicon valley program budget. (verbal report) capital program committee6:47 PMThank you. i'm going to provide a brief description of our report. Beginning in 2001. We were in the process of doing our preliminary development for the process and without phasing. In 2005, it became clear the effects of the end of the dot com bubble were lower than expected. We withdrew from fta's new start. And at that time we developed program of projects to implement what we could as quickly as pssible. As you know in this industry, time is money. So whatever elements of the program that we couldadvance would be cost-effective for us. You will see that program of projects in a moment. In 2010, e were able to conclude a successful record of decision for a phased project that being phase one to berryessa and shortly thereafter we received a full funding grant agreement for phase 12 for phase 1. I don't have information on the phase 1 project tonight but there are challenges daily. Vta and bart, their combined team on the project rise to those challenges and continue to be confident to continue services for the year.They will continue to test and initiate the services in October and I hope to provide more positive updateon that in october. The cost summary you will see in a moment includes 18 project cost elements in four different categories which include eight projects that were under separate cooperative agreements with different agencies throughout the county and alameda county for that matter. This development was done more than a decade go for the overall program cost. The first item here is an accumulation of cost that occurred in 2009, at a time that we reentered for the program in the first phase, that figure is relatively stagnant. The next item is on going costs from program wide that cannot e attributed to phase 1. This isroughly bonding cost for financing the overall program. There are some other minor costs in there as well.This next larger group is quite a complex array of different projects, some of which are merely isolated to capture costs. So, for example, the vta block. We exercised the purchase of, there is a little bit of revenue from the parking at that location, but all the costs and revenue are associated with the project or accounted for here. But the others, you can see the alphabet soup there. These are projects that are largely coordinated with other entities. Program wide, $3 million, and staff cost needed to organize these projects that aren't a charge for themselves. For instance, there is an independent that we coordinatedwith fremont, the initial rail was an amount of work nd with the improvement and the santa clara water district. The reconstruction project and upper peninsula creek trail. This is in coordination with the city ofsan jose and motorcrossing is milpitas project. Each of these projects comes with their own funding program are isolated and accounted for here totaling about $470 million. These projects are separate from the bart extension works. They had their own independence purpose and need. The bart extension $2. 4 billion. This is the phase 1 project that we've been talking about. Standing for silicon valley berryessa extension. Next here is the remainder of the bart extension project that is all of these activities directly related to the bart itself. This is largely in effect of fta's influence on what they are willing to fund and not willing to fund. What remains for us to accomplish is the future extension to santa clara which would also include the whole maintenance facility. We revised that here to facilitate our pursuit of funds available and there May be program funds to fund these elements separately. More core system modifications. As youknow there are provisions in our agreement with bart in our obligate ta to serve that - improvements in the core system to ensure they are not eroded in the extension. And the last item to assure the full funding for the springs extension and we couldn't do it without the extension to warm springs. But at that time there was a need for vta to assist through the reallocation or sharing of programming and funding sources.That's where our costs are accumulated here. The next slide, this is our forecast for cost to complete onthe berryessa phase 1 extension project. The prior forecast is in the second column here. You can see the highlighted column forecast which is forecast to complete. I won't go through all of those details, but the items 10-90 are categories that are prescribed and the estimate is the original estimate in the full funding grant agreement. It's against those figures that we track our progress. So in the prior forecast, the key item there is on line 90, the added contingency of $154 million. We are trying to chase to close on the berryessa project. It's been a while before we have been able to estimate forecast to complete. That's what you see in the current forecast column now on allocated contingency at $93 million. It's a different ofabout $56 million, and you can see that amount allocated to line 100, finance charges and $22 million, and at the subtotal of lines 10-80 at $34 million. That is not exclusively but largely due to the delays that 3 we have incurred and essentially staff and consultant and technical resource cost associated with that. There is a new item on this. This format, we've been reporting for quite some time as I have indicated, but down where it says non-federal. This is an item that we have recognized and beginning to accumulate costincurred that will be ineligible for federal funding. However, in the close out of the project and certainly the close out of the grant, two items that will be evaluated as potential eligible costs that vta has alreadyincurred that would be under the concurrent non-project activities. There was a group of activities that we are performing in conjunction with the berryessa extension project but fta wanted to conserve theeligibility of the full funding and we will be asking them to consider the eligibility for the grant funds but the same is true for non-federal but they will probably be eligible under our grant. The last item are theconstruction grants. The ca 700ar are the ones we are reporting and 95% complete and based on value and expenditures as comparatively small expenditures that are occurring, but of course that is our largest contract. So 5% of that figure is not in substantial, but in this grand scheme of things, there is a limitedamount of work done there and 3 there is the campus transit roadway and the network. The campus and roadway has been largely assisting us in taking care of late breaking requirements and changes we needed to do to satisfy different owners and operators and handing over the facilities. This is a link from theprocesses to headquarters. It is a retrofit program to existing facilities and still on going although largely complete. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:57 PMThank you, are there questions from board members? Vice-chair chavez?Thank you and thank you very much for the presentation. I just had one question. And that is as when you did this close out process and we look for eligible and ineligible projects, what is the sniff for the federal government to help us with our --6:58 PMThat's an excellent question, I recently presented an fta conference and gladly to express that fta is a partner in these kinds of projects and there isn't a partner more interested than having a successful project than fta is and one that is in the budget and recapturing funds is not part of what they are after.They want to make sure their project is successful and with regard to the concurrent non-project activities is just a reservation that they expressed at the front of our full funding grant agreement and they have onoccasion expressed discussing those items. For example, in that figure, the comprehensive agreement, and the operations plan at bart required vta to procure 60 rail cars but 20 of those cars are already reservedand normalizing passenger loads throughout the system and fta said it's not really the base of the function of the project but we'll have an opportunity to discuss that. So that's the again motivation that we canclose out the grant at least with regard to budget performance.6:59 PMIs the timing of the close out, do they have a certain amount of time by which the close out must occur?The front end is generally defined when revenue service begins. The end of the close out depends on when we get all the work done and that is essentially answering all the questions and making sure thedocuments is in order attendanted attaining and responding to any audits that they might want tooby withactivities. This has been going on for a very long ime and takes some time. But generally speaking, this forecast cost to complete is forecasting out to the nd of June next year where we will have closed the project office, we will have moved the project close out activities o headquarters and the staff levels will have diminished quite dramatically by that time. At that point it's really just a matter of responding to fta'sreviews and questions and fta will determine when that will be closed out.7:00 PMThank you.7:01 PMDirector liccardo?Thank you.Just a couple questions on the second slide. That's it. Thank you. The project development 2010 and on going line item at $91. 5 million you've got for project development for 2010 and on going, the second line item. Is that essentially interest expense? Ou said it was bond cost?The cost of bonding is related to interest and the total amount in there is about $78 million in bond cost.Generally speaking that category is for program wide activity and can't be assigned specifically. Those two lines May have some potential to be included in the phase 2 project, full funding grant agreement, although this case not likely. Generally speaking fta wants to use as a cost basis associated with the cost of the project we are doing and with accumulated wide cost which is substantial and the cost associated with the phase 1 project and they were included in the cost basis of our full funding grant agreement. I expect similar exercise for phase 2, but fta changes over time with their policies in the way they do things and under the spend indicted project in the delivery part of the pogram, that May not be part of this case in this instance.7:02 PMSo the $91.5 would come from measure a.I'm sorry, i'm having a hard time hearing your question?The $91.5 million will come from the measure a pot?7:03 PMThat's correct. unless it's provided by other sources and in this case it's not.Okay. as we look at the bart silicon valley transition, there are these three items and it's a little bit more than $5 billion and the asterisks suggest that it's what we have from the ait.The phase 2 project, the activity that we are now conducting is engineering development and the end product 3 of that is to the cost of the project. Those estimates are somewhat aged at this point, but I don't have updated information to replace them. That's n excellent question.7:04 PMWe expect those numbers to get larger.They will be differentYes, I understand. you indicated the additional $22 million in finance charges largely due to the delay. Isthat also true for the loss in unallocated contingency, the more than $50 million there.Hose additional costs are largely attributed to the delay, yes. They are not in all cases, not entirely, but largely, yes.Okay, and in response to supervisor chavez' question, we were out with administrator jane nguyen a few days ago and I recall we were saying $100 million under budget, isn't that great, but she suggested thatfta May in fact find it within their will to reinvest those savings into phase 2. You May have said something similar but i'm not sure we heard anything from fta saying that, have yu?7:05 PMIf I may, madam chair, respond to that. Historically when a project is completed and there is federal funds that are remaining, those federal funds are returned to the fta, in essence not really returned, if they have future payments to us, they will keep the differential. But in this case since we received the last payment from the federal government for phase 1, any funding that's remaining, are entitled to take those dollars back and apply that to another project not necessarily in our interest. They are reviewing internal procedures to determine whether or not if a project, if there is a subsequent project which in our case there would be that is attached to the original project, our phase 2 will be a continuation of phase 1 thatthere May be the ability of the federal government to allow for the use of some of those dollars towards phase 2. But I think she shared that, but I think I saw her staff look at her when she did say that because they have to go back. There are some things that are stipulated in law that will limit their ability to allow us to keep funds, and what the current administration is doing, they are looking for ways that they can stream line, they can facilitate and help accelerate the projects. This is one of the those things that they would like to revisit. F it does require a change in law, they May pursue it and if it changes the process within their own administration, they are address it.7:07 PMThank you.Are there any other questions from board members? If not, I will o to the public. We have a request from andrew boone and from roland to speak on this item. Public speaker: thank you. I would like to remind you that this extension from the santa clara caltrain station is not worth a billion dollars. We already have that covered and that is going to get better with the electrification of 2022, a little bit faster and more frequent and we already have vta 522 and 122 between those two points all day long. If you want to wait, if you want to travel on public transit from the santa clara caltrain station, they are every 15 minutes. You don't need to bore a billion dollar tunnel to provide transit service that already exist. This roject should be considered as an option to truncate the bart extension at the san jose diridon station as an alternative, another option, a plan b if this station does not receive the $1. 5 billion grant from the federal transitadministration. In my opinion, we should not be applying for that money. That's taxpayer dollars being distributed by the federal government that otherwise would go to some something actually valuable. That money stop and go to new starts transit, not covering the same old transit that's already running for decades with another train, that's a different color. What does it matter if it gets on red or blue or white.That's not worth spending over a billion dollars on and if we didn't do i, we would be in a much better position for this bus service which is this agency's number one piority. Thank you.7:09 PMThank you. public speaker: thank you to the staff on the transparency after the committee. The only thing I would like to bring on this slide is this line 18 professional services $600 million. You May want to look at it. I believe this is excessive. In the private sector it's 10% and the public sector is 20%. That's all Iwanted to say about this slide. Can you take it back to one slide, please.7:10 PMSo the reason I brought this to your attention is both that is being reported, that the berryessa extension to 2. 4. And you can see the overall picture is much larger than this. The only thing I would add on thisslide is merely pointed out which is closer to the date and unofficially I have been told, not by staff, actually by the press that they are trying not to look at the figure of $7 billion. As you look at the overall thing, it's over $10 billion. Anyway, I thought I would bring that to your attention. Right now we arefocusing on this station and my advice to you that you better start looking eally soon about how this will get to highway 101, because if you don't, you are just wasting your ime and you better start rethinking what you are doing.7:11 PMThank you. if there are no more comments from the board, it was an information item. We don't need a motion. That will take us to item placing the vasona light rail extension and corridor improvements program on hold, discontinuing further project development activities and corresponding expenditures until operating needs warrant reopening the project. Governance and audit committee the item was reviewed and recommended approval.7:12 PMHi, good evening. so, just a little history. Back in early 2018, we initiated a study with horn to do aconceptual engineering study to look at the corridor. We completed the study as of July of this year and we want to bring you the results of this study as well as staff's recommendation. This corridor opened in 2005 from san jose to campbell. The portion of the corridor that we are focusing on is everything southwest of diridon down to winchester station. This line currently operates at the frequency of 20 minutes andservices about 300 daily boardings. When this project was built it was with two cost saving measures. Most of our corridors have two track segments where they can travel at the same time. This other cost measurewas that it was built to only accommodate two train platforms where the other one accommodates 3 platforms. We want to focus on three improvements to look at. First one would be expanding the car train platforms to allow for more trains. The second would be looking at improving the two existing single track segments to add a double or second track to the locations and the last was extending the light rail track down to the junction where the property currently is. We also looked at one additional item called the temporary separation and this will allow to operate on the heavy rail tracks. Throughout the corridor there are tracks that go to los gatos and we looked to see if it would operate on the light rail tracks and found it would require some pretty extensive signalling work and would require a significant amount of coordination with union pacific railroad, which due to those two issues, we eliminated this option from consideration pretty early on in the study. So what we are focusing on are those three constraints that I showed you on the last slide. On the red, the bottom left is the proposed extension down to the junction which is a twostation extension down to a property and that in blue are the two large single track segments on this corridor. So the first thing we looked at where the potential platform expansion of these six platforms south of diridon station. While we originally thought this maybe a pretty cost-effective item, we realized it would cost about $48 million. This is due o the light rail signalling around the station and we would be moving alot of items 100 feet to accommodate for the expanded platforms. The next item we looked at is what we are calling the double extreme tracking which is where we could improve the double tracking and add that second track in areas where it would be the easiest to add that new track. The two single track segments amount to a little bit over two miles and this would double track about half of that and at the cost of $39 million. To give you an example of what that might look like, the existing corridor is about 50 feet wide and the light rail track is built on the northern edge of that while the heavy rail track is right in the middle of that corridor. We have to build a new freight track t the southern end of that right-of-way, move all thefreight operations to that new track and rehabilitate the existing freight track to allow for light rail operations. This would allow very longs 3 right-of-way along the corridor for the double tracking so thiswould be relatively easy in terms of the work that we are looking looking at. However, his wouldn't improve it very much 3 and wouldn't allow us to operate our trains any faster on this corridor. So we looked at fully double tracking the corridor. Double tracking the one mile of the track would cost an additional $94 million which would be a total cost of $135 million for the corridor. Double tracking this mile and the reason for the portion, there was a lot more significant construction that would need to happen. At this location t tracks are on bridges over the two roadways. At meridian, there is a similar operation where you would have to build a freight rail track and at these two ocations which is the existing for the light rail operations.The last item we looked at was the extension about a mile 1/2 from the winchester extension down to soma station. The right-of-way which I mentioned about 50 feet wide narrows o about 40 feet. So to increase the extension, we would need to procure a significant amount of right-of-way. Our consultantlooked at ways for reducing this capital cost of this extension and we did a little bit of that with the original design include tail tracks and some additional right-of-way that we found that 3 we could design around that as part of the new design, but it would still be about $191 million o extend the tracks down to the junction. So with that, what we are recommending is putting project on hold pending any needs forchanges to operations on this corridor. And what we are looking at the potential cost that don't justify theadjustments. We May look at a different program that will allow us to open this program such as diridon and others operating along his corridor. But at this time we don't have any plan to improve our operating frequency and we don't see the need to expand our platforms at this time. So we recommend putting this project on hold which essentially means not going forward with any additional engineering as part of thisprogram. With that, I would be happy to answer any questions.7:20 PMThank you very much. member davis?7:21 PMThank you. I appreciate the report. I see that the west carlos station was only added only after the double traction. Is there a cost pull out and I know there has been quite a bit of housing already uilt in that area which is one stop from diridon which is only one connection to the station. Do you have a break out for justthe west san carlos station stop?Yes, we did look at that as part of this study. I don't have it at this time, but I can provide it later. One of the tricks for adding that station for the work being done at the diridon concept, we found there May be potential changes to the light rail tracks going down to diridon which would impact the san carlos station.We realize in the future there May be so the -- some asset changes.7:22 PMI think it's important to put this on hold especially with what's happening at the diridon station. There is an urban village planned that we approved earlier, might have been last year. There is more housing andoffice planned, and I think it would be nice to see full trains, and then to come back to the board and say, hey, we've got full trains. We have capacity that we need to add. I think that makes a lot of sense rather than build it and hope they will come.Thank you very much. member mcallister?Do you have any ridership numbers, potential ridership numbers on this?7:23 PMAs part of the study, we didn't rerun the ridership model from what was ran back in 2014. The 2014 eir estimated about 700 to 800 new riders. We wouldn't find any additional rider improvements because wewouldn't be changing the service as to part of those improvements.Any other comments or questions from the board at this time? If not, we'll go to the public. We have kevin catila followed by roland lebron. Public speaker:Thank you for allowing me to speak on this subject. I want you to know that I am strongly in favor of putting this on hold. As a matter of fact, I think you ought to go further. I think you ought to put the wholesystem on hold. The whole bart and san jose system, you need to put it all on hold ntil we come up with the money because I was looking at the amounts, the total amount that was on the screen up there as to how much 3 we are going to be spending on this project on the entire bart to san jose. It needs to bestopped now. Thank you.7:25 PMThank you very much. roland? Public speaker: public speaker: obviously I agree with staff'srecommendation. The idea that we are going to improve light rail technology and the union pacific tracks.Why didn't you start looking at these and these kinds of trains actually in some cases they will give a way to say, yeah, you can run these on these tracks because they are real 3 tracks and they can take impactsand whatever separation. Obviously you have to pay for the train if you don't lease them long-term. But now, what I want to talk about is thank you to member davis for bringing this up and what's going tohappen to diridon when you go up to this station. We knew the light rail system, that is redundant. But how are we going to be phasing this? But ou want to look at if you are using these tracks, these trains arestopping at diridon. Why are you going to that station, you would be able to provide some kind of service. I thought of putting that out there. One last thing, I would really like to know how much this study cost.Thank you very much.7:27 PMThank you. without any further comments, we need to approve this. Okay, do we have a second.All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? okay, thank you very much.That will take us to our last item response to the 2018-2019 santa clara county civil grand jury report.Were developed by the ad hoc governance committee and recommended approval of the responses today.Jim watson, chief of eneral affairs officer will provide a brief staff report.Thank you, madam chair. as the board is aware the vta received a report from the santa clara county civil grand jury. We are required by law to write a written response on or before September 15, 2019. Asindicated, she asked at the June 21st board meeting if the ad hoc board committee would assist in reviewing and recommendation a response. The committee undertook that process. They held four meetings where this was discussed. In two meetings they went through it line byline and paragraph andpunctuation mark and came up with a recommendation that you have before you as the attachment. At the governance and audit committee meeting this afternoon, the governance and audit committee meeting made several recommendations for the board enhancement ommittee to consider as they moved forwardwith their work on finding and improving the relationships with the board of drectors, and they also noted that as part of the response the committee had recommended and the staff had initiated a study of different governance structures as was recommended by the santa clara county civil grand jury. The motion of approval earlier today was for the graph as written with the exception of page 6. There was aclarification that they wish to make on page 6 under the response, the last, the first sentence would be changed to be 'prior to this recommendation the board initiated the review of light rail technology'. Thereason for that was they felt the originally ritten language did not clearly delineate the fact that letter board had on its own decide to implement that study prior to receiving he report. With that, i'm happy toanswer any questions and staff's recommendation is approval of the draft response to the civil grand jury as recommended by the ad hoc committee as well as the governance and audit committee.7:30 PMThank you very much, Mr. Lawson. Are there any questions at this time from members of the board? Not seeing any, I will go to the members of the public who wish to speak on this item. Please lineup. Public speaker: good evening, director, my name is andrew boone, a candidate for santa clara county ouncil district 6. It was very fortunate that you discussed this and there were several meetings. I attended theone I was able to because i'm very interested in this question of certain recommendations for how to board should be exposed or how vta should operate. In my opinion it's about making better decisions than you are making currently as a group together. In my opinion, democracy is important and is a method for decisions being made 3 in a good way. People elect certain people to represent them because they know those representatives will prioritize bus service. If you elect them, this is what would happen because if you reelect them on this board, people know because this is what is lacking on the agency and no way moving forward to fund this service on an adequat adequate level. It seems no one cares about this. But this is a way to guide for the public. For example, strong and bold action on climate change whichthankfully the board of supervisors declared that a climate change emergency concerns us here in this county. This agency being an agency of the county must respond accordingly. In an emergency, you don't say, maybe we can fund some more buses ten years from now after we spend billions of dollars on improving bart and making improvements to caltrain and widening lanes for more cars. No, those need to be low priority so bus service can be the higher one and democracy should be for the city you represent.Thank you.7:32 PMThank you. does anybody else from the public wishing to speak? okay. Any comments from the board, if not, is there a motion? No comments, no motion?We have a motion and second. last chance to speak. Okay. All in favor say, 'aye'.7:33 PMAye.Any opposed? motion passes. thanks for the work. Certainly the report is being taken very seriously. Okay, this takes us to item 8. 8. 1. General manager report. (verbal report)Thank you very much. we closed this last month august with a meeting from washington d. C. And regional office in san francisco. We gave them a briefing on joint transit development and committee on joint bart stations and we also did a very limited tour of the bart station of berryessa since its under going testing and the bart organization has now accepted responsibility for that facility. We were not able to gothroughout facility in whole, but the members really appreciated the effort that the real estate and jointdevelopment group have put into identifying the potential of a joint development at each of the four stations that are going to be part of phase 2. This is important given that the expedited project delivery which later in the day she presented us with a commitment of $125 million towards the federalparticipation in phase 2 that the expedited project delivery pilot program does have a requirement for p 3participation in addition to that for a value created and capture which is what we are hoping with this jointdevelopment. As you heard and read multiple times within the last five days we are the first transit system to submit an application, i'm sorry, the first transit system to identify to the federal government ourinterest in this pilot program. The first of 6 interested projects in the nation that was given the green light to move forward but to present an application next year, and then with the commitment of the $125 million which by the way, is the full amount that's in the budget for that pilot program that has given us a really good support from the federal government and an opportunity for us to once we submit our application to be in line for a multiyear commitment towards the remaining billion and some that we are going to beasking them fr. So that was a good event. I want to thank the board members who were able to attend.The other thing that I was wanted to share with you all is that letter amalgamated transit union has a new international president in washington d. C. . His name is john costa. He had served within the organizationfor many years as a no. 2 and stepped into the role when the then president larry passed away. John costa is a very new president. What he did first was come to the valley transportation authority. Why did he do that? He joiattended the joint workforce investment which is a labor management program that focuses primarily on apprenticeships and mentorships and now developed for the operators that want to move intomechanical roles and also opportunities for upward mobility within the various ranks of our maintenancepersonnel. The jwi program as you remember back in June we received the bay area metro award for the program that the partnership that we entered into with mission college. So it was the local 265 atu, together with mission college and grants that we were able to secure from the federal government and some local money that allowed us to create the curriculum with mission college and to further developopportunities for our employees and we've had I think one grad graduation and one ther one to assume.So he is here at the station program and wants to 3 adopt some of this with his team. The other item was the silicon valley pride parade and as again as last year, we had great representation by vta staff and this time there were over 600 vta members and family members. The buses were colored in festive colors for pride month. I would like to thank all the employees that joined us and also the operators who drove thebus right behind us and all the personnel that made sure we were safe and that there was enough distance between us and the employees as we were marching down market street. In other news, we today, item 8.1a is a continuation of a discussion that we started last month's board meeting where we talked about the faster bay area and the group of general managers for the nine county bay area that got together to startto figure out projects that we wanted to begin to identify within each county and how they were going to be inter connected. Today we have with us from silicon valley to talk and share with us the activities of the faster bay area working group. Scott, if you are going to kick it off with an overview. The director of planning is going to be kicking off the presentation with some further 3 information that the bay area ofgeneral managers have been sharing with their respective boards and then we will viin invite the silicon valley group and they will discuss the operations they are taking on next month.7:40 PMThank you very much. good evening board members. I'm going to give a very brief overview of what we have done to this point. Up there you see the transit agencies that were contacted by the coalitions thatcarl and jason will be talking about and talked about recommendations for new programs. We came up with a vision and that is what you probably expect from the different transit agencies that we came up with which is a world class transit network throughout the entire nine counties in the bay area. We came up with some guiding principles and we want to expand the service to the ay area and we want to make transit safer and looking for opportunities for doing that and also to make sure our infrastructure is in good state of repair. We also want to make sure we are resilient and able to operate and equitable and to ensure that the improvements we make are representative for every one of the nine counties in the bay area and to advantages and technologies for the industry. So based on that, we came up with the following fdingcategories. We talked about these at the June meetings. The first one is transformative that are projects o really transform the transportation area and really change the landscape of transit. Second is to modernize, look to make sure we are looking at the latest technology and have those types of programs.Third is service and capacity improvement, to provide more service for everybody throughout and safety, resiliency and sustainability. This is the staff recommended programs and projects at the June meeting inthose four categories. We have the one on one corridor program for projects that are not necessarily one on one but from that corridor from the county line all the way through the bay area. And potential projects for this will be things such as caltrain code improvements, could be heavy rail improvements, as well as interchanges as well as valley to valley rail. In addition to the metro program, this would be for projects to be innovation or corridors and freeways and arteries and as well as high capacity ransit and lightenhancement and speed rail for our bus system and modernize for our fleet conversion. Looking at the next flight of ex and looking into replacing that and zero emissions buses as well. And we have ervice and capacity improvements that will be quit and operations rogram to be able to expand the services we have to help low-income and disadvantaged students as well. I have an asterisks ike the bicycle super highway because this is something that vta and the management gency is pursuing. But they are not as fond of this, but we can look at creating an expansion of this program that we have. And then enhancing the projects. This is what we recommended in June and we did have recommendations about what the process would be and we have joe and carl with us to talk about the next steps.7:44 PMMy name is carl, the ceo of the silicon valley leadership group. It's truly an honor to be with you here this evening. Thank you for your interest in these on going efforts for improving our region for everyone in the bay area and nine counties. As I listened to scott and your team updates. The word came to mine as youlaid out and the principles that you laid out and there is so much oversight that is exciting and so much of the private sector already have such a bond. If I may, if you can go back one, thank you. Faster bay area, reminds me that a dream delayed is not necessarily a dream derailed. It was January of 2017 when thebay area council and the silicon valley leadership group sat down. After working together with you and others on our successful ovember 2016 measure b effort with 71 1/2% of voters agreeing with that vision and investment, and leading the santa cruz measure d effort but waking up on election morning not only happy but looking south. I'm going to admit something I will say as a proud bay area resident, I was losangeles envy because los angeles through their ballot through their voters passed a permanent $0. 01 sales tax for transformational transit improvements for their region. That made us think and gather inJanuary just two months later what can we do as a bay area with a regional economy, regional commute patterns and regional needs. That is when faster bay area was born, but again, a dream delayed is not a dream derailed. Shortly after we started that effort. Our bay area legislative delegation came to us and satdown and said this is good. We like a big vision to match he big challenges we have here, but we need your help first with regional measure 3. That was the region's first nine county transportation fundingmeasure, and they asked us to colead that campaign which we were proud to do and proud of the 35 specific improvements with regional funding that were needed through that measure nd even though $4.45 billion in improvements is important, we appreciate leaders on mtc like a property -- nd mayor liccardoand other members talked to us about having this vision which our region needs and deserves. We are now back to the original vision of fast bay area. The next slide, you can recite better than i. We have a trafficand transit problem in the bay area. In fact silicon valley has had a 21% increase in commute time in just a six 1/2 year period as we found in our silicon valley competitiveness project with our silicon valleycommunity foundation. Next slide: the vision of the silicon valley leadership group is a partner in this effort that I believe our other partners share. Is that we believe the bay area residents deserve a world class integrated seamless transit system that builds and operates our transit systems to provide reliable, safe and efficient service, and please let me make this really clear to much better serve those who are transit dependent and compelling enough to lure those of us who are current car commuters out of ourautomobiles. That's the vision. It's a model o achieve much greater equity for those who are transit dependent in our region, yet also lures the rest of us out of our cars or in my case, dare I say occasionally off of my bike. Next slide: like the valley transportation authority staff, there is the vision and principals to guide our thought process and you are going to see amazing similarity. You have these slides. I won't go further so that we can continue the presentation. But it is wonderful to see the alignment that we have.And then funding mechanism. No? Why don't we go ahead and do that.7:49 PMWe believe in a shared responsibility model. That if something is important to our region, that to the extent that we can contribute that we all do, and that's not just individuals, that's also employers. That's why, when we lead measures, and we've had the pleasure of leading 14 local regional and statewide initiatives around regions and transit and housing, it is through all revenue models across that spectrum. Again, following the lead of los angeles, as well as much of what seattle was able to accomplish with their November 2016 measure around a $0. 01 sales tax approach, that would generate about $100 billion, $600 million over 40 years in today's dollars. How would that share in the model? In the county which each of you have leaders, your employer community pays $0. 43 of every sales tax dollar collected. And in the innovation economy as you know which is globally competitive, that means employers paying a local taxcannot pass that along to their customers because their global competitors are not paying that local tax.That's $550 million a year commitment from your employer community. Bay area wide, it's $0. 35 of every dollar. High income earners because of taxable sales pay more of that $1. 6 billion than middle or low-income earners. But let me make an important point because this is something because we never found a perfect tax mechanism. Sales tax are still regressive. To california's credit, the three highest items of most households and certainly in more challenged lower income households, the three out of four highest items, three of them are not subject to the sales tax. Housing, health care, and groceries. The fourth item for some are their transportation sources and that's why our vision is for this to be a transformational transit measure that much better serves the transit dependent as well as those that we can compel out of their cars. I'm going to turn it over to my colleague jason baker who at one point sat where you are sitting and now is stuck sitting next to me as our vice-president of transportation housing and community development. Jason?7:53 PMThank you, carl, and thank you for all of your service on this board on these late nights. The good news here is we think the public is eady for this. We started with focus groups nine counties countywide because we wanted to hear what some folks thought about the county as well and they are remarkable and theyget it and we said, are you ready for a transformational change and they are. They are really ready for something new and bigger. We follow that up with a series of polling throughout the nine county bay area to essentially through data and science do they support a measure like this and then the 3 harder question like this, are 3 they willing to support it not only in concept but with their wallets. We found that they are.Residents do recognize there are serious transportation challenges throughout the region. And we are confident that voters want a more than reliable and accessible transit system that really connects the bay area. In fact, the polling showed sometimes that the individual projects they were less excited about and more excited about the kind of visions on scott's slides, the faster principles and the leadership groups likethis figure and transformational system that really works. Those are the things that voters are willing to do. We polled a funding mechanism backed by property tax and taxes and they poll about the sme. That's not surprising. And they all polled at the level that I think could pass this, the kind of level that we areused to seeing when you see a two-thirds measure but not nearly through the layoff but did pass and are confident that they will support a measure like this. But we also found that with negative messages like most two-thirds measures if there is two funded operation, that could be a problem for this measure and that helped inform this decision about what funding mechanism shows. So after we went to the public and figured out. We think they went for this. We went to the transit agencies and talked to the transit operators in the nine county region one on one. Not only did we ask what do you want or your area because that's an easy question and some are already in documents as you go down to dc that we are used to seeing all the time. But we also asked what projects and policies and things do you think will be useful in other areas ofthe nine county region, and what's your ision for a measure like this. If it's not a county by county, we are going to fix every pot hole kind of measure, what would you like to see and it was along the lines of what 3we ee here and the general manager has been coming along with which is really the same vision and faster that what we have come along with and we need to start working on the scale that people move. We know that people don't move on the with bart and only one on one county. We need a measure and transitsystem that recognizes that and plans for that. You can see on the slide. We have done outreach to a lot offolks with our partners at the bay area council and on the phone and individual meetings every other week talking with general managers and other groups and the transit agencies from north of the county all theway down. Some things we hear and what we see on scott's slides that low-income trips are important, that don't spread the money around like peanut butter but focus on things that will really help connect the region and work on climate adaptation and resilience because that's on the minds of a lot of folks wetalked to, and being able to operate what we have and what we built. We can't only keep building new things but keep in mind that operating a transit system that is more frequent and more reliable is an important part of our measure and important to vta. I will mention on the funding mechanism tax, because I can't let him have this slide to himself. Because we do recognize there is a negative retro sales tax and will affect those that are poorest among us. We are looking at a tax credit and a tax that will give back to those low-income individuals so it won't hit them as hard, and other tax and other ways to make sure that all of us in our community have access to this world class transit system that we are trying to build. Andoperate. That's hy he's here to keep me honest. In terms of process, part of process I talked about already. We are working with general managers and working with operators throughout the county bay area and also talked to the transit operators and transit professionals in cities and that's what we are continuing to plan to do. We are going out to at a ou can -- talk to the public through a series of town halls and technical experts in the cities so we can get their idea about how this can work together and work on categories in terms of projects as we work in the next 5-10 years and also a broader category of projectsand buckets that can be future proof and can really work to help connect the bay area. We plan on presenting to mtc for the first time in otober. Right now we are doing a lot of the cma's will be presenting in october, then work on proposed programs and projects with funding levels and some of this won't be, I think it will be unlikely to be a whole project list like los angeles developed in part because of timing and inpart because we ant to have the flexibility. And then there is a piece of this that we worked on a proposed policy. If we are going to spend $100 billion in the first 40 years, we do it in the best way possible and do itright and more efficiently and effectively than before in the bay area. We are looking at ways for doing that as well. We will have a meeting in December and then to the legislature to be 3 placed on the ballot by mtcbecause it's the ine county bay area transportation system in late spring or summer. Then in terms of next steps, this is something we talked about to make sure that rojects fit that vision and that this is the kind of program that builds that seamless integrated transit system. And again exploring rebates of fares and other ways to address it.8:00 PMA final note and thank you again for inviting us this evening. Why November of 2020? Again, this effort started in January 2017. That will be almost three years and again deferred by the request with thelegislature and mtc to focus for the year on regional measure 3 but back to the original goal. Three reasons why we would still like to target November 2020, 14 months from now for 34 months since we started this process. One, we had 109 months of continued growth in the united states. We all know that is not a birth right. And at some point, that economy is going to turn. And passing something visionary is more difficult when an economy turns. Two, we believe that presidential general election ballots have a history ofshowing the greatest participation in our democracy and that allows more voters in our 8 million, and nine counties in the bay area a better participation. And we know that operating a world class seamlessintegrated transit system takes many years to complete, and we can't wait many years to provide better service for our transit dependent and to compel our car commuters out of those cars. So thank you for allowing us to work with you, and citizens and a democracy to try to improve our region.8:02 PMThank you very much, carl, jason and scott for your presentation. Are there questions? Director boones?8:03 PMSo, carl, just for clarification, you talked about la?I'm in a 12 step program.I know, you mentioned two attributes, $0. 01 and bay area. If it's $0. 01 but are we talking about something that is permanent as well?I would hockey the silicon valley leadership group because I believe a comment by council member carrasco earlier is that we are not only building integrating existing systems, we are helping on the operating sides too and operations costs go on. They don't end after a sunset measure. That's why yes,like los angeles, who extended and an existing half cent to make it permanent and a new half cent and that is their penny, a 50ing for this penny. The federal transit administration was candid enough to communicate to a group of us awhile back. Ollars are finite and competition is fierce and los angeles which passed a visionary measure, now have the matching funds and matching funds in perpetuity for thosefinite federal dollars. That's going to make it tougher for us in the bay area. Part of it is envy, but part of it is the wisdom to know that it is a four layer cake for these investments which is the region and local share and that federal share as well.8:04 PMI appreciate that because I think one of the messages loud and clear from this board and from other boards is we really have to. I mean, it's not like giving the kid the brand new shiny electric toy, you have togive them the batteries. That wasn't clear in your presentation. I'm glad to hear that.8:05 PMAs a father of three, with the thomas the train theme, I like your analogy of the batteries.Thank you.Director rennie?Thank you. I liked your vision, it's exciting and reading the bullets. For me to get really excited, as an engineer, you always want a little bit more detail. It's almost like I don't want a project list, but what I really want is a vision that we can complete a completed transit system. Ooking bay area wide, but in our county, we don't have a transit system that was completed, so it doesn't work very well at all. So, i'mlooking for more confidence that we are going to think of this holistically and create a completed system or work towards a completed system than just more projects. Any feedback on that?8:06 PMYes, thank you, council member rennie. When the leadership participates in any of these initiatives overthe last 3 years, this is where we walk in with the citizens and private sector. It's a blank list of paper.There is no project right now. That is that process within the next few months with technical experts that know about the operating system and reaching out to the nine county city bay area for their input and feedback not just through polling and focus groups but a much more robust outreach project as well asother stakeholders of importance to this region and our collective future. So, we share with you that we need to start with that open mind around the vision rather than a precooked list of specific projects.8:07 PMWhat i'm hoping is somebody, I don't know if it's mtc or the right body is going to create what makes sense for a completed system versus just getting each group pet projects thrown in and not knowing that they really creator work towards a well-connected system.8:08 PMWe are in concurrence and I see at least one of your mtc commissioners leaning in, but I will leave that up to your chair to call on.A little different than our usually deal here. I would just say that the rtp will control that and something this big will be to build-out the regional transportation object. I think we've had a little parochialism and who is doing what when you have these smaller measures and it's not a question of whether or not we have a holistic plan, we do. The rtp. It's a question and we only have money to choose and pick a couple things at a time which creates a lot of tension. What i'm hearing and I don't know if this is a request from anyone else, but it seems to me that this is a basis that we are going to build-out the rtp and anticipate with such a forecast and things of a large process that are not spelled out exactly. I would think these are big crosses and things like that. I think that's a different process than having the legislature than to justpick handful of projects to prioritize. That's my take on it. If I can pivot a question to the chair, I can take the response on this one long-term as far as i'm concerned unless you just have some immediate thoughts, but you kind of put a presentation to put an unknown factor on what is going to be on the ballot and the cities response to the sales tax which is a great tool in terms of leverage. It gets you to the kind of numbers that you want with $100 billion. But it also tends to be the flavor dejure. Any thoughts on how that might be approached differently than perhaps the other efforts that have been very talked down theway suggestions came forward and not as much buy in. I mean, you are here today which is great. Is the idea to go around to try to meet with folks extensively to try to alleviate concerns to try to find out whatkind of planning people are doing in terms of revenue measures so it doesn't look like a talked down approach.8:11 PMSupervisor cortese, you have made so many great points and great questions. Let me take a couple of questions and then turn to jason for that on that process of being inclusive and collaborative. One of thequestions you mentioned was about what might at some point with the technical expertise, the citizen input throughout the region, the continued input from the 27 transit agency leaders and their technical experts throughout the egion culminating with mtc and I would assume the bear legislative delegation on what this looks like. I will only speak for the leadership group, I think I speak for our partners from theeconomic and equity community that are working on this and that is the word around transit. -- overwhelmingly if not solely we want to accomplish this seamless transit system. Now, I cycle and we've heard from folks dvocating from the bus community tonight too. Bikes and buses need roads that are well maintained. So the leadership group is close to the reality that there is an impact both on greenhouse gasemissions, on fuel costs, on efficiency, as well as ease of travel if we aren't continuing to maintain those local streets and roads. So we are not closed to street maintenance as part f this because of the impact onforms of transits like buses and cars. You have worked on improving the system so buses aren't just stuck in the same traffic that single occupant cars are. We are not close to that possibility if mtc things that's going to help that form of transit and passengers who are overwhelmingly transit dependent. What the leaders don't want to see is a six lane highway. If any of that is in the rtp, that would give us a tummy ache.8:13 PMRight, got it. so that's a little different than the way I presented and I appreciate that. It would e good to hear more about essentially what council member rennie was saying that at the end of the day, how much rtp gets built out and how much tension there is. That said, it's too early for that and I agree. But back to the process, I want to say this and as an mtc commissioner, that the Commissioner Is not very good or yet has still, is still in the learning process in terms of how to gather the kind of information city by city andcounty by county in terms of support levels and the kind of pressures that might exist in terms of a revenue measure, and I guess what i'm really trying to say is to encourage the leadership group andstakeholders that are involved, not to depend on mtc. If you say, yeah, this is good or if this revenue measure is good, you know, only to offend all the other elected officials in the region who don't sit on thatcommission or a bag who tend to receive that kind of information as governance by fiat. And when we learned, that through that process from mtc having gone to county and in the city much like has been done with some of these local measures, here is where we receive this support. Mtc is a great implementation organization, but the organization itself is not again still has a lot to learn in terms of that kind of interaction with that kind of local officials, not to mention the candidates in an election cycle like this. That's my recommendation.8:16 PMIt's such a solid recommendation, thank you.Thank you.If past is prologued and this is our plan, only speaking for the leadership group, there are well over 100 elected leaders who serve solely citizens in santa clara county. As we have in the past, our goal, our plan,jason and i, is to make ourselves available individually to all hundred plus just in santa clara county alone.Our partners in both the economic and equity communities are going to try similar outreach in other parts of the region. There is so much to do to do this in a thoughtful way. We often think that 14 months is a long time or 34 months since we started this process and we realize it's just as vitally mportant that we are as inclusive and transparency as much as possible in these outreach efforts and we'll do our best to do so.8:17 PMIf I my, I will add to that. I came from ne of these small cities who feel like they are not out reached enough and I know how that feels and i'm going to do what I can to prevent that, especially with thesithese folks because many times they feel like they are not part of a process. If you want to know anything about this, call me and I will talk with you because I know how any of that feels and we want to be able tobuild this with you.8:18 PMThank you. director liccardo?I just want to express my enthusiasm. I'm sorry I didn't go faster. I have a couple questions that i'm happy to discuss off line if it will take this kind of conversation. I know that within the city and the county the region has its own rivalry and sometimes we behave parochially and some areas May get more money andthat is talk about a regional transit system. Has there been conversation talking about for a minimum for a funded source to ensure some particular favored jurisdictions May not receive just a portion amount of dollars at the expense of another?8:19 PMMayor liccardo, thank you. I think there were at least two salient questions. I will take the harder one and the other one I will give to jason. That's called leadership, one regional improvements and localimprovements are both necessary at the government level of transportation that we all know we need and fight for. As we listen to voters, through polling and focus groups and increasingly in much greater ways to communicate and give direct feedback, in polling, when we ask for local and regional improvements, by a 2-1 margin recognizing recognizing 3 travel patterns in a region economy, everyday citizens emphasize the regional by a 2-1 margin, except for the big portion who said both. So as 43% saying regional or 22 or 21% who said local and 22% who said both. My sense is as we really learn from public transportation professionals in those 27 transit agencies, that to make this type of a vision and to help us know what we can afford with $100 billion in those first four decades and i'm going to emphasize to both build and to operate batteries included, council member bruins, that I would assume it's going to be a combination. But we want the user experience, the customers experience and transit dependent and hopefully carcommuters to see this system.8:21 PMThat's going to feel like to the customer a lot more seamless and to your discussion return to source for la and also an indirect return to source as they did where your money back but along the guidelines withwhat e are trying to do. We certainly heard that from a lot of the different areas and certainly a discussion.I appreciate that. the question will come up as we are marching around the bay area. Just going to scott if I could, the vta staff recommended programs and projects, I know this is a very high level and this is not a list of projects clearly at this level. But I just wanted to ask, I know that we don't, for example, runcaltrain. We own a third of it, but we don't run it. For example the electrification to gilroy is critically important for that system and as well as other systems that we have for instance the high-speed rail. Soi'm assuming this would get somewhat more flushed out or at least we would see, it's fair to say say, not to mention that it's not in there.8:22 PMTo get this information, we thought we came up with potential projects. Certainly that would be right along the lines. This is to emphasize from the county line. We would be happy to work with them to get it in a format that they are comfortable with. I know there is kind f a balance between voters for specific projects,but over 40 years, we think there is a lot of benefit to having some flexibility with that. That would be ourrecommendation but I will refer it to them.8:23 PMThat would be a hesitation. and you would like for clear signals for folks to understand how to get this passed and what it should be.If I may, mayor liccardo because what you are bringing up is important. When we listed the one on one corridor, it was not only to show the 101 highway but a mile or two on each side of it and specifically caltrain and grade separation and elements of our infrastructure and as well as connecting those gaps thatare prevalent throughout the entire bay area, not just on our bicycle super highway where you are on a lane or path and it ends up no where, but in the bay area where it provides a seamless service to customers and goes beyond the universal fare. It's the level of service, the opportunities for connections and how we close those gaps. That's where we started with this effort where we looked at the map of theregion to say okay, if we can start creating networks, ballad those be, and by the way, what happens with those networks today and how do we make sure there is inter connectivity not just comparing tables but also by closing gaps in the connection of a caltrain to a vta rail line or to a bart or to an ace train. And with those gaps are really the ones that are really going to help decide whether or not we are creating a full network that is inter connected or whether we are adding just more projects.8:25 PMI appreciate that and in the spirit, for example, I would love to see that connection, and assuming if it's something in here that it's still contemplated?Yes, in fact it was included in the sheet we gave last time. That's including the airport and potential projects.Okay.Okay, director, mcallister?Thank you. thank you, guys, for coming. A couple of questions or concerns, but do you -- you have this pretty tight window and you are going to talk to a lot of communities. How realistic is it to do that outreach and make people comfortable and get this on the ballot?8:26 PMThank you, council member mcallister. It's amazing how fast 34 months can go. But we are glad for our region that regional measure 3 was 12 of the 22 months that had passed to date and 14 months before the November ballot next year. All I can say to answer is community outreach in a region challenge? Yeah, in a county of almost 2 million people. Here are experiences that we have learned from our own efforts 3collectively as well as we have seen in counties and other regions on how to do that through their many tools we have to do our best to bring people together and that can be in person, it can also be by he tools similar to what san mateo county did when they successfully did a transportation funding measure on last year's ballot where those tools were through many forms of social media and online and were able to get input from literally thousands of citizens in their county as they constructed that measure. Again, not a cooked list of improvements, but seeking that input throughout their process. As far as our organization isconcerned and I do speak for our partners in that regard in the equity and community, that is the commitment. But you are absolutely right, sir, these are never an easy process to try when you are really trying to get engagement, that is never easy. To answer the other art of why y -- your question to makeeverybody happy, that is rarely ever possible, but we plan to bring everyone to this process.8:28 PMI was very much concerned about transit corridors and for example gilroy to san francisco, gilroy to sacramento. Has anybody done any comprehensive studies yet to say here is corridors that are primary, that are important and are going to do something because I still hear a little bit about the parochial and to me it doesn't address the major commuters when we were talking about light rail, we have sr 85, 101 andhuge amount of traffic with thousands of people and we don't address it. So how are you going to tay'ler make this to get people out. To me it's the more bang for your buck to reduce that. How are you going to reduce the greenhouse gasses.8:29 PMTo me it's reducing greenhouse gasses and working on things that happened at mtc and work on the way people travel in the nine county region in the corridors and what makes sense. We started with that vision of what's the point. The point is to connect this system and move a lot of bodies fast as you said earlier.That's what we are trying to do and that's what the focus will be. Will these corridors be identified insteadof aying vta is going to have a project that hopefully will match with the tram or alameda. Are you going to have these corridors identified?8:30 PMI'm looking at general manager fernandez because she is looking at corridors. We are going to talk about how to do this. Talking about things in terms of corridors make sense because that's how people getaround.8:31 PMIn terms of studies, we have looked at a lot of studies going on and have been completed. Often that do cross county barriers and ertainly if we looked at the 101 that we proposed was from gilroy all the way into the nine county bay area, I think there will be a lot of additional ones that will go on that will go on and tomake that happen throughout the nine counties through that corridor. I think from where we are were coming from, the corridor approach is really the way to go and there is a lot of existing data and we can do a lot with that too.I do want to be clear. and again, this is the leadership group that I believe are both economic and equity community partners. When we are talking about corridors, we are not talking about three new lanes onhighway 101. We are talking about what are those transit multimodal approaches in those corridors. So, again, I just wanted to be clear about what we believe will make our region a more sustainable region from an equity perspective, from an economic perspective. From a greenhouse gas emissions perspective and the long-term health of this region. So, I do want to make that clear when we are talking about corridors that are often associated with highway corridors that we are not talking about huge expansion of our highway lanes.8:33 PMNeither am i.Good.S r 85 corridor and we want a dedicated lane. There is a corridor of 87. Tens of thousands of new jobs aregoing to start from north bay shore along 237 into milpitas going hat route and yet there is no plan right now to move the people throughout the bay area into those jobs. And e seem to put out projects that don't look at where people are going to end up. Yes, the development of north bay shore and sunnyvale and north san jose wi-- bloomed very quickly but there is no ay to move those masses of people, and the masses of silicon valley. I didn't see their reaction. We are getting all of these jobs. So we need to look at whoever develops s that we have to get people to their jobs and not necessarily across town. So that's really important. Now. Rm 3 left a lot of bast taste in the city and counties. What will that have an affectand those particular projects were more parochial from my perspective than actually helping the region.8:34 PMWhile the silicon valley leadership nd nor while our private sector partners developed the plan for thatregion nor specific improvements, and frankly for someone who has served on the administration for 14 years, we can get together and talk about that over coffee but we didn't pick those improvements. Region3, whether by the process or if it left a bad taste, it was passed by the citizens in santa clara county. There was no one who said this isn't worth it. But policy makers that left a bad taste and what we tried toparticipate and you participated in measures that we have been more engaged in the discussions around improvements is the same method that we've lined out today to have that much more inclusive transparent process of conversations. I don't know how many times we've had the pleasure of at least six or eight of sitting down with your colleagues in the west county and north valley to have thoseconversations and we intend to do that both individually and collectively. Though I prefer it be at 31 flavors.8:36 PMI will follow up. there are going to be competing measures. Caltrain is thinking about throwing a measure on the light rail. How are these going to be incorporated? Are you considering incorporating that into yours and others will have their taxes for transportation and so forth? So how are you going to integrate those?8:37 PMCouncil member, you have so under scored this at that level in the transportation system. That's why policy makers are looking to solve their own challenges and that's to be expected. Our view about doingsomething regional to recognize a regional economy and regional travel patterns is for priority ways to integrate and build a seamless system. While a billion dollars seems like a lot of money, we all know when it comes to building and operating transit systems, that is only going to go so far. Like contra costa county going forward, yes, they are oing forward and i'm assuming my organization will be supporting that effort.Does that preclude the need for improvement for contra costa residents in November if we are fortunate enough to move together with a vision like this, there will be that need too. We will leave it up to the vision and the values and the judgment of our fellow taxpayers as to which are worthwhile to invest in and which are not.8:38 PMI have learned from measure a that decisions made 20 years ago don't necessarily get implemented with the technology of current. Hey were tied nto a particular technology. How can you write a measure that issomewhat specific that allows an organization to adapt to what's current and most effective?8:39 PMFirst of all to clarify again, I will not be writing a measure and my organization will hot b -- not be writing a measure. We hope that facilities will be writing a ballot. In terms of technical advance and a valley known for this innovation, e believe th believe, the leadership group believes and our partners do also to ensure this is part of our integration. I hope I answered your question because your question was a multi-question, you asked about cal tran. That 140-year-old system is pretty incredible. 72 fair box return. It is filled past capacity. As council member davis knows using it from travel from stanford not only in the am and p. M. Commute but in both directions. Do we believe that any measure would probably include a corridor that is so vital to people dependent on that corridor and a system where three out of five of caltrain riders today own cars and are choosing to get out of their cars and lower greenhouse gasemissions by doing so and taking more cars off the road by doing so, I would be surprised if continuing to improve and grow and integrate that system with other systems weren't what transportation professionalsfelt was appropriate, but again, this is our project list, a blank piece of pper.8:41 PMJason, did you want to add?We talk often about the concept and we never talked about scooters. Now that is the thing. Transportation change happens fast and you need to build that into any measure especially of this scale and timeframe.Some cities are doing employer tax for transportation. Will there e any companies, corporations who might not put sales tax in a different way to subsidize or to help this tax measure go through?8:42 PMYes, one of the things again that we would like to talk about, again, no one likes paying taxes and there has never been a tax that I have heard people say, that's a great tax. But again, I will repeat n sales tax in which is a county that you live and serve. Employers pay it. $0. 43 of every sales tax dollar collected which is a past easure is paid for by employers including yourself in your day job. Employers pay that tax. Theinnovation economy employers competing globally cannot pass a law in that tax. They have to absorb it as an investment that they find worthy of competing globally when their comp -- competitors aren't paying.In addition, what should also be included very rigorous transportation demand transit programs for employers of a certain size. We continue to be very open to that because again, at the end of the day, we are trying to solve a challenge, decades in the making that is normality # -- not only rippling our economy, but we hope that includes reaching into our own wallets, ot just asking for others.8:43 PMThank you.Are there other questions?By the way, if we can keep the questions going for another three hours, we can celebrate my birthday together.8:44 PMOoh! maybe we can get to a 31 flavors and njoy your birthday with a sunday. It's great to have you here.You mentioned other taxes and I read in the paper that the county is considering a proposed sales tax. Is there a level of tolerance. Isn't there a cap? I'm wondering if we are going to hit the wall here in santa clara county if we've got several just within our county. I'm not sure what that cap is?The state legislature ets the cap statewide as well as often changes it statewide for regions as they did with los angeles when they moved forward. So the legal cap has changed numerous times in ur state, andthat's up to the state legislature. It would need to be part of the enabling legislation to even place this on the ballot. And then you asked a very real question hat I hope we are all sensitive to. What is that cap in the mind of voters and that trade off of three items that are crushing our region? Housing affordability, which has been decades in the making in california. Traffic and lack of transit options, and the overall cost-of-living. And the cost of doing business so that jobs continue to be created here when we are not in this wonderful high of 109 months of ontinued economic growth when we know better and you know betterbecause we all live through the two years of the dot com bust and thousands of our neighbors losing their job and where our neighbors lost our jobs. And it took for all this to get it back. We all know this is jobinitiation and creation in the region. But we all now that voters and you and I have to decide is that task worth the return on the investment? We believe if this vision is met, that a super majority of voters would think so, but that is what's onderful about a democracy. We'll find out together.8:46 PMOne thing I would like to emphasize on this is that I serve on the capital corridor with director peralez who is not here this evening. The ace that comes and drops out thousands of people. We've got to be looking at what are going to be the funding mechanisms because not everybody is going to live here and i'm hoping that thinking back to the vision of now supervisor simitian who was a huge advocate for the creation of uc merced to bring the intellectual to the capital for those to help the community prosper and looking to bringing those back and looking at universities like uc pacific and uc merced and stockton and merced will have an opportunity to develop, but are we also looking at and do we see here will be more fundingopportunities which are now part of our mega region to develop the pieces that they will need so that we can truly have that integrated network of corridors?8:48 PMChair, o'neill, again, I will just speak for the leadership group. We share your vision that a measure can, will and should benefit the bay area and beyond, and the folks that participate in this region whether they live here, work here, study here, etc. Wearing my other hat that i'm not wearing tonight on the california transportation commission for the last six months, I have been pulling together the local regional state and federal entities within that corridor that you just talked about, about what do we do to extend ultimatecommuter express -- or service where in 1998, the only leadership group that was interested in making that happen. The 80 or so miles from ace currently first 40 roughly miles to series and then more 40 miles to the uc merced campus area. We actually already have some state funds for hat improvement through language and additional legislation around senate bill 1. So there is some funds there wearing my ctc hat, not tonight's discussion. We have to realize that bay area and beyond a constituency of commuters that we all go into as you see uc merced and other institutions continue to thrive in those regions. So, yes, we have to think through those issues regardless of which hat you and I re wearing tonight.8:49 PMThank you. if there are not anymore questions from the directors, I will go to the public and the first is kevin followed by andrew boone and followed by rolandch -- public speaker: that's my big concern for you putting it on the ballot. I don't think that would pass. I have another question for his board, why s there no other bus that you guys can send to this new transit center that you want to put in over for bart other than making people that take the 60 suffer by not letting it go to great america and letting it go to this new bart center. People don't want that. Public speaker: good evening. I'm a candidate for santa clara county district 6. This is very bad for this area. This is do or die, this is make it or break it. If $20-30 billion moretaxpayer dollars that come from a sales tax by the way, go into widening highways and putting more cars on the highways which is what the corporations want to do. I heard that corporations want to add more toll lanes, that means widening the highways Mr. Liccardo. this is happens in san mateo. They are planning to widen to 14 lanes. And they want to add that cost to the bay area and more toll lanes and people don't want the toll lanes. I know they are not saying, we want to spend billions of dollars on lane expansion.People don't want more cars. I don't know corporations and yourselves don't understand this concept. They want to do this and almost all available sales tax includes large amounts of money for the expansionincluding measure b which is failing to improve public transit. You trust these guys to make our lives better for public transit, that's a mistake. You need to pass no highway expansion. Thank you. Public speaker: talking about the extension to merced is $100 billion which cost us to buy the single one. To the concern that mayor liccardo talked about tax money disappearing somewhere else, I know it's a heavy lift but here is a suggestion. How about having a separate part for each county and one of that part stays in one county and let's see what happens to that. I strongly suggest you watch what happens at mtc and see what is on the board. But seeing this and how it works and to the east bay. But here is my proposal. How about having the vasona to diridon and now to five years ago which is to protect. Now we can have these trains, much faster. There is actually -- the whole point of this approach was to make south jose in 13 minutes or less. If you are not going downtown, why go through that? Now you can go through the same thing in 20minutes or less. But we need from that between santa clara [ off mic ]8:57 PMThank you. omar? public speaker: hello, my name is omar chatty. My remarks are different although they are related to what john was saying and you, teresa. Okay, the fact of the matter, I travel ll over the county. Hopefully this will include some highway improvements. Transit uses highways whether it's access or whether it's express buses or something else as well as emergency vehicles as we found out in gilroy.We need highways to be expanded and we need the $20 million for the ieir and the infrastructure bill. We are at 325 people dead on caltrain tracks, two this week, morgan hill and san francisco. San francisco is most unfortunate because bart is already separated. Let's finish the last mile on the caltrain and we can et rid of the old train that keep killing people every month. That has to do with the east bay. I'm sorry peopledon't like sov. I have a driver years ago. 77% of people are still in their cars. We do need to improve highways. Those are my cents. We don't ignore reality. You serve the public. Make life easier. Thank you.8:59 PMThank you. next speaker, please.Good evening, thank you very much. Speaking to the board of supervisors or climate emergency. I'm very concerned about including highway sales tax we are not going to make people get out of their cars if we make it convenient for them to stay in their cars. I live in a community and I get a free bus pass. And people say, i'm going to get stuck in traffic. I'm taking bart. So that's my thought process. If it was easy to get up there by car, I would be much more likely to take my car. So we shouldn't be spending more money to make the freeways easier. If there are certain places that need trying to get access to morgan hill, thatshould be a separate thing. We shouldn't be just voting for money to put in expresslanes so that people can pay a bit more and it's peanuts to what they are already paying. We are not paying more to get people out of their cars unless it's easier to get transit public speaker: hi, I would like to thank this leadershipgroup for coming here with this vision. One thing said by Mr. Cortese and what Mr. Campbell said, unfortunately while the cost of come packet with the process has had lastly some ramifications. I want to echo that point. The other thing I would say as you are thinking about how to build quity into this system and you are also addressing it and I want to make sure you don't lose sight of that. There are ways to do this as governor newsom talks bout this and we are not affecting our communities the hardest. Thank you.Thank you, is there any other member wishing to speak? If we can successfully deliver bart by the end of the year and we can work on our next network system and we can show the community that we can start implementing transit solutions for a better quality of life, we would be in better footing to ask for moremoney. What I would urge is everybody to do to work as hard as we can that we can pledge to deliver in the next year and successful as possible so people will say that was a good investment. Let's do more.Okay. you were going to continue.Yes, thank you to both of you and also scott. I think it was worth going through this process and getting everyone up to speed given that it's a run for the races. We are talking about over the next 4-6 months coming back here with or maybe way before that coming back to this board with something that it cansupport so that this process can continue on this current schedule as its laid out.Happy birthday, carl.Yeah. happy birthday. to continue my report, chair, item 8. 1. Bis a report on rail safety that is rail safety month and we have continued to improve on this priority. Angelique is going to give us the plannedactivities for this month. Our chief safety officer. 3Thank you, nuria, thank you for the introduction. We'll move right into the presentation. The theme of oursafety campaign this year is you can't beat a train. As you are probably aware two tragic incidents occurred this summer involving bicyclist that were hit by light rail train. One of those incidents occurred at the light rail crossing near del mar high school and involved a summer school student. In both cases both lights were activated and they came with trellis coming down. And many times children wear ear buds and notpaying attention as they are coming across our tracks. The goal with this campaign is to increase overall public awareness of traffic signs and warning devices that are in our system. We want to educate bicyclist and pedestrians about the dangers of not heeding this warning about devices and about being distracted as you move 3 around our system. One of the most common misconceptions about light rail train is that they are light and not heavy, but nothing can be further from the truth, each car on a train weighs 50 tons. Weoperate single and double trains and they can not stop on a dime. Our strategies that we intend to employ to get our message across include working with operation lifesaver. They are a national non-profit organization that work with the u. S. Department of transportation as well as other agencies nationwide to promote rail safety. Their campaign, similar to ours sends the 3 message that you can't beat a train. As seen on the lower right hand corner say can you save a train, not just your with local stakeholders and willuse local social media and we'll have printed and digital safety this info. We also sent out a letter to the p -- superintendents in this county and we met yesterday with del mar high school and talked about options and exploring what students can do including the student leadership group to help them send a message at their school. In addition we have rail safety week. Rail safety week is occurring on a national level. It goes from the 22 to the 29. For us this is what ours looks like. On September 22nd, we will have our tables out there and community team and safety officers spreading the message about being safe around thesystem. On the 24th, the sheriff's office will engage in a sting to make ure vehicles are following the rules.And September 26th, we will be setting up an event and hopefully working with not just the normal stakeholders in our community, but also the federal railroad administration and operation lifesaver, our media partners and hopefully some of our elected officials who would like to join us spreading the word as well. For the remainder of the week, we will be participating in other events that are consistent with what other agencies are doing nationwide. So monday, September 23rd, the focus is on distracted driving and Friday trespass prevention. Then finally you will see if you haven't already that we'll be flooding all the social media around safety with facebook, twitter and linked in. We ask that you share them on yourplatforms as well or come up with your own message on safety as it relates to function with our light rail system. With that, i'm happy to take any questions.Thank you, angelique, any questions?We have a request to speak on this item. Director tran?Ho runs the social media?We have someone on our staff that runs the social media.Just let them know they are doing a great job. I love the facebook posts.Thank you.Roland?I don't want to take anything away from this presentation. You can set the record straight. On the first slide, the light rail is 155 not 150. Let's not make it slower than it already is.That is the major corridor for one of our crossings because you think you have enough time and the train catches up with you before you realize it. I'm going to ask the members of the board to support this. We have done everything related for these efforts in working with communities, educating communities and working with the schools. For those that are working with the schools, we ask that you help with this. We are not getting a great response from the schools. We need the schools and population to help us to work with us as we have had some that have resulted in fatalities. That is all I will say on that. Now we move on with our agenda. We have steve palmer from washington d. C. Who is our lobbyist who has joined us togive us the federal picture on the current and what lays ahead. Welcome, steve. I know it's been a long night. Thank you for hanging here with us.Thank you for the opportunity. Madam chair and members of the board. I would like to give a very brief update on the current environment in washington d. C. Right now with respect to transportation and how we are focusing our advocacy with vta and the annual multi-transportation bill and working n the highway trust fund. It's safe to say that this year has been a little bit and more than a dsappointment. At the beginning of the year there were high hopes for an infrastructure bill. There was a real desire to get something done on infrastructure much more than just transportation but across the board at a cost of atrillion dollars at some point. Unfortunately the desire to get something done has disappeared. The focus on washington and the executive branch is on small issues. The fta and tot are trying to get things expedited. Dot announced they were going to be limiting the number of pages on environmental documents that agencies submit as a means to try to expedite the process to choose better words in the hunt for that process. That will be interesting to see if that happens or not. I put on the board aboutagencies with leadership is limited and we advocated last year. She's a sincere advocate and the best we have at dot. And unfortunately throughout the dot and federal government, there are more officials thanconfirmed. We have the deputy sector acting, the general counsel acting, the general policy acting. It makes it difficult for them to get much done or for congress to hold them accountable. Congress has been focused on two years to simplify it. Investigations and as I heard there are 60 investigations going on in the house right now and the senate is primarily focused on selecting junction. So the progress has been very slow this year and working on an agreement for the in ex-# -- next two years. Nd the setting up the defense funding. They want to get beyond the election without more budget battles. Also by doing that, they set aside budget sequestration and no more across the board cuts. It does create certainty andslightly increases the mount for spending and not as robust as the house would be. It's going to require if the house bill is going to require about one 1/2 percent and there are going to be some reductions and I will talk about that in a second. They have been holding off and the senate has been marking their bills and they are trying to get them through committees. There is still going to be a battle over funding level and whether there is a government shutdown and whether or not to build the wall. The democrats aren't going to agree to fund the bill. So let me quickly talk about this. The transportation appropriation bill. The senate hasn't done anything. I'm not getting into details. It's a good bill. The $500,000 is an increase if itwill last. I tried to highlight some of the issues that might be important for vta, additional funding for electric charging station, for rail crossing. Congress has really done a great job in the last three yearsincluding the republican and the house. They will fund brt projects all day long. It's the rail projects they haven't wanted to do and congress has been pushing them that they not only pass projects that meetstatutory requirements but agree to the projects with a share. The federal level is 83%. They are trying to focus on anything above 53%. That is in process right now and continuing to work on this project in the senate bill. There is more funding which is competitive and program money for helping vta compete 3 for next year. So, I mentioned the multiyear service transportation bill. The fast act is the currentauthorization bill that expires September 30th next year. We have one more year left in that bill. The senate started the process of reauthorizing and they only focus on the second bullet and it's $287 billion for highways 3 and bridges over five years. The remarkable thing, is they included $10 million for resiliency and carbon emissions but the first time in three years that congress has done anything on emissions.Transit and rail has to be done by the senate. Today as john said, I want 280 billion for highway, but i'm opposed to gas tax. I think carbon reduction is going to be an issue. We'll see. We are again n a year ofextensions and continued resolutions and more appropriations we'll see and probably because of the election and we'll see in revenue and talking about a bill. The last item is a highway trust fund, it's going bankrupt and both will run out of money at the end of next year. The next couple multi-bills they are putting more money in the multi-highway fund. They are going to need $100 billion to serve the gas tax.That is a significant amount of money. Last year they took money from the federal reserve process. No one knows how they are going to do it. But if they don't want to and I tried to list the options, if they don't want to raise the gas tax, the vehicle miles traveled is not ready for nationwide application yet. Toll grades which you are all doing for expresslanes, that's a great opportunity for raising revenue but you can't do it for transit. Without doing something which is cut federal spending, it's important to highlight, the money that vta receives from the formula funds right now which are essential for critical operations will essentiallydisappear if there is no increase in gas tax. Without the additional revenue bill there is going to be a big fight in washington. It's going to be a significant issue that we have 3 to spend a lot of time on next year.We are working with afta and we are trying to address that. Lastly, the good news while the president has set the infrastructure aside, a lot of the number of the democrats who are running for president aremaking infrastructure priority. Senator amy from minnesota has proposed a 10 year, $1 trillion program and more importantly she has figured out a way to ay for i. So there are issues that could be positive for all of that. With that, madam chair, i'm happy to answer any questions.Are there any questions from the directors?I think omar requested to speak on this item. Public speaker: my name is omar chatty. I work on a number of transit groups. This is a great overview, but what specifically is vta getting that is earmarked, what is the status of earmarks if anybody knows because I heard the democrats are willing to do that and so istrump. Circulate anyway that bart can get to santa clara completed. So is there anything specific here that vta is asking for that the lobbyist can help us get.That's a very important question and thank you very much omar for reminding us that the flow of funds is not perpetual and we have to always look for different sources. When it comes to what Mr. Palmer has described in the situation in washington d. C. Is very dire. A lot of folks are not paying attention to this highway trust fund that it's at the top and will be pushed over the cliff. The first thing that congress needs to do is to find a way to replenish the highway trust fund and it cannot be limited to just the gas tax. It has to be directed to inflation and some measure and decreased as they are considering that. But given themovement towards zero emissions and greenhouse gasses, we know that electric vehicles do not affect the gas tax. So we need to figure out how this infrastructure can attribute to its mod-- contribute to itsmodernization. Related to its earmarks, earmarks went away and we liked the idea but it became sountenable particularly from the communities that were not related to the trust und from gas tax because of smaller states but benefitting from big projects and there came the term the bridge to no where and othertypes of investments which became the poster of bad decisions of infrastructure and investments and earmarking. As mntioned, chairman defazio, is interested in bringing back this earmark. It is not acertainty, there has not been a decision. Of course if that process is reinstated, we will have our list so that our delegation can recognize some of the significance of using that mechanism to fund things directly into our county. The projects that you mentioned are projects in our mind in the bay area and what we plan to work on as well.We do plan to submit a grant request because most of the money that we are getting as the general manager referenced, 3 earmarks aren't a possibility so we are going to be preparing more grant requests.That's where we are going to get a lot of the federal moneys from bart. I do want to call out andappreciate steve coming out to speak with us. I have been saying that I would like to see us as a board do more direct advocating to -- I know some of you May go with silicon valley leadership but as a board thatwe spend more time with our local congress and state delegation and we don't have to go to washington d.C. When they are here and maybe we can set up a meeting. I know we have a very astute and well-informed delegation rom santa clara county, but maybe we can talk about this highway trust fund clottedand we are talking about having more money for more bus operations, if we hit the wall, with this highway trust fund, there goes our funding.That's important, madam chair. It's important to recognize that we do get our share of funding from thefederal government on an annual basis and which is important that the congress approve funding on an annual basis so we get this reliable income. What we have seen unfortunately over the last few years is that hey don't agree on the funding for the budget and therefore there is a continued resolution. So we are in the status quo just receiving funds at the level we received the prior year but yet our needs continue to grow as inflation grows as well. Okay. If there are no further questions for steve, thank you very much and we look forward to seeing you back. For the board members, if you are planning to meet with members of our congressional delegation just let us know and we will put some points or you on issues that are affecting mass transit specifically and how they can help us through you to make the appropriations onthose issues and get us the funding that we need.Do we need to meet as a community as a whole?I was going to announce. if there is any board members still in the building, please no one 3 else leave because otherwise we will not have a quorum for closed session.Then madam chair, the last item on my report is the silicon valley rapid transit but this presentation is given by joe gibson focused on the bart station as part of the phase 2 and the transit community program.Thank yu. we are here tonight to announce the imminent release of the draft transit oriented community -- committee for the draft 2 extension. Ft has done that because they recognize hat the development occurs around extension is really critical for project success that is really key here. So that will also be involvedthat we have new jobs around the bart stations. What we have tonight is to talk about the transient oriented communities and not just talking about properties around the stations, but talking about the stations as a whole and about the walk shed and bike shed and how we have a set of activities andthinking about the access improvements, thinking about the multimodal improvement and about creating street environments about having a walkable diverse community fully integrated with transit that includes diverse employment opportunities and economic opportunities and housing types for all includingsignificant amounts of affordable housing. We've been working with other communities and malls throughout the country and other areas. We can just wait for these proposals, we have to think about thestationery as a whole and think through all of these issues that are needed to create throughout these transient oriented communities and to advance the goals. We know that having his comprehensive strategy is essential to get the funding we are talking about tonight and this will lead to increased transit and ridership. That increased ridership generates a range of benefits. The thought about this is that in our work that we realize when we look at the opportunity for are doing transient oriented development, we can concentrate or ore tod.As ron mentioned this study is funded by fdot that continues to improving transit for better integration of transit and land use to increased ridership and the federal investment. The toc's strategy works on what the community has done to date. This includes the downtown station as you know the diridon station isbeing planned through a separate effort. Although the recommendations that comes out of this study could apply to this area as well. This study takes a holistic approach for each station area and includes a land use strategy and improvements necessary to oster transient oriented communities and we have these tools to make this vision a reality. Looking around the country, we have identified these projects. What we have described as our framework for success. This study provides a great step towards achieving that goal.Because these strategies take a long time to implement, it's key to begin working now to create the foundation for success. Second, a joint implementation of strategy is necessary to cut across jurisdictions in departments to help stream line toc's and to rassure success. Finally regulatory robust and funding for toc. For example this could include specialized to c zoning, early capital investments for key streetcomponents or affordable housing. This study kicked off last year and gone over three major phases.Creating successful transit oriented communities long-term, a joint implementation strategy to be lendl and providing robust programs. And these reports are posted on our project web page. So this collaborative work done culminates on the toc's play books that are in three specific reports that describe our vision and provide detail and actual recommendations. These documents provide a high level of keyrecommendations. In a reader friendly way is intended for the general public and policies for staff. We will include these for the public and will have comments and will be online and all the analysis and supportingdocuments will be online.This only works if implemented. There is a public investment that needs to occur if this needs to be in places where people want to be. Part of this study that is focusing on is that transit extensions create value. So how do we capture some of that value to help fund these needs. As we go through staff is tounderstand based on development potential for tod, how much tax is that generating and to cover their increase for service cost and what it provides. In that, there is revenue that is left and that is revenue that is available for improvements. So we have been going through a process with the city to think about what this might look like. The graph you see up here is really looking at this value potential with theinfrastructure and finance districts. What you see because we envision here is a model paid by new development as it occurs so over time, we are looking at $180 million a year in federal funding to support necessary improvements. When talking about the necessary improvements, that includes not just physical improvements, but also includes critical needs including funding for affordable housing and projects and the types of things we need to do and also includes funding to help support projects and maintenance.Partnership between vta bart and both cities is essential for the success for toc's. As you know we rely on the city for these strategies. So we have been collaborating quite closely with both cities to provide tools to implement as they best see fit which we see as essential to continue that close collaboration. So we've heldmonthly coordination meetings of city staff, quarterly technical advisory groups and these forums have allowed us to develop a closer relationship with staff and we have an appreciation for their time in this effort. We have also engaged with public stakeholders through briefings, presentations, community eventsand online engagement. So far we have engaged stakeholders through nearly 40 briefings to date that include a diverse set of stakeholders of business associations, commerce, residential neighborhoods,universities. This study has held numerous interactive workshops in the public to solicit their vision and their priorities nd means of addressing key challenges and in each area. We have been able to engage a total of 200 community members in our workshop. The next steps to draft play books and public review period and engage folks to encourage their participation for a 30 day review period. I wanted to highlight what we have done for general community workshops. So as long as the new development is done in a way that respects the surrounding neighborhoods and historic and cultural resources. Community membershave identified a need to improve pedestrian, bicycle and transient connections particularly around the santa clara and 28 street stations. We heard that affordable housing and anti-displacement strategies are essential to ensure existing as well as new residents benefit from transit access and finally defining flexible parking solutions is necessary to ensure the present needs an also to prepare for the future with lessparking.So what you will see when the play books are releasing a we have taken all of this work and all of these ideas to organize into successful and really six keys that need to happen. That's what this graphic is trying to show us. It shows the organize strategies and programs and policies to advance them. So briefly to highlight what those are, updating land use to ensure good transient oriented communities and focus on small business opportunities on how we enhance commercial areas and focusing on how we preserve andprotect nd produce workforce housing o produce these essential needs. Also about creating great places and destinations where people want to go to and want to spend time in and thinking about access andmobility anden insuring those resources and how parking and other actions are done and finally about understanding how we fund and implement this and in the time frames and the challenges that are ahead of us. This is an overview of our analysis. This shows the bart station extension, the dark blew and the circles are the stations. We created a model to help us understand where development might occur. Basedon our arket assessment, we talked about conservatively a large amount of need and by 2040, we think there is 60 million square feet of all uses commercial and residential and other around the four bartstations. That is a tremendous opportunity for us to finally do what we talked about in this county which includes land use and growth together. This is how we accommodate growth without the impact in terms oftraffic congestion being the tremendous result we've had in this county. So to give you a sense of ow you this breaks down, that could be 60 million square feet, and santa clara station and downtown san jose and alum rock and diridon station. We can talk about the station area itself to give you a visual of what this transformation May look like. Just to give you more detail. Thisgraphy shows the difference and the commercial space and when you look at the residential, there is a considerably larger number which is key to having it balanced and mixed auto and residential. That includes residential because of the inclusionary housing policies which is also key to very substantial amount. In total we are talking about the potential in double. Now we'll talk about stations which is first 28 street and berryessa berryessa. What you see aroundthere is a residential area the red property represents what vta currently owns. Based on the opportunities and strategies in the playbook, we feel it will look like this. The bart station behind the plaza with this community plan becomes the center for this new community that has a wide range of housingdevelopment opportunities from employment, small business and so on. Now, let me go to downtown. Nowwe have 3. 4 acres from santa clara and that's the property that will be the downtown bart station. But looking at this, we think if we can create a successful development of framework that we talked about at last meeting, e can easily have a couple of these. This shows the opportunity to put it right at the station and also the option for this additional -- finally, I want to talk about the downtown san jose station. This will what we think the 3 future of the station will look like. What we will have at the end of this road is a future bart station. What you see across the street is the residential and what city of santa clara approved and you see a street that accommodates bikers, pedestrians and transit.So what you will see is a report on the toc's and the 30 day public review period. We will be revising this input based on the public's input and plan to finalize this by the end of october. We plan to come to you in the November timeframe and we plan to work with the cities on the implementation and recommendations.In the meantime we plan to look for grant funding to support with the implementation process.So we have been very co cognizant during this process that vta does not have the ability to make this happen. So the cities and city councils and community members really need to come together to figure out how to best go about doing this. What we define in the playbook is still a lot of knowledge and strategies and programs that we feel is the right piece needed to be assembled but after this process that will determine how this works. In that vein, what we are hoping to do stop and go to santa clara and city councils and ask very espectfully, that the city council endorse the holistic approach to think about the station in a comprehensive way and going about creating transient oriented communities in the county and how to put this together and also ask what the planning and funding that will occur for this vision. Finally, if there is a need to review progress on a regular basis working with vta and other stakeholders.So public engagement is crucial to the success of this implementation and we are asking the public to review the draft playbook, assess the information and take the online survey. We have developed a video for toc's to post online and we hope to give you a preview of what will come.Vta ( video)With the expansion of bart, we plan to work on these areas. Transient oriented communities are areas where you can live, shop, work and learn. Soon here in santa clara valley. The benefits of toc are many.Housing choices for all income levels. Employment centers around transit and active public spaces and local and small service stations without having to drive. Promoting cultural identities and heritage and lesstraffic. In fact toc's generate learn car traffic than housing. How o we make this happen? Vta collaborates this framework for making this a reality.Thank you. I will be happy to answer any questions.Thanks to ron and jill. are there any questions? Mayor liccardo?Just briefly I wanted to share the word warning because you will be going to the public soon. So that you are aware that we have worked on providing several urban plan and this shows a building right on top ofthe project that the community has been very attached to; and certainly i'm supportive of building right up to that trail, but this is what some of the community embraces as a 3 pedestrian access as to the station to other parts.I think that's an excellent point. If I can touch on that briefly because as we work through the county and when we are south of santa clara street there is a large open space. In fact when we were talking to theopen space authority and they agreed with us. That it's more of an urban trail. It does go through urbanized areas.It's more organized.Okay. we are in agreement that that is the approach.Yes. and that will keep running north.That's right. if I can just add. 28 treet in some ways has the biggest challenges. This is the discussion with the community working group is that in that station area, there are currently four urban area plans, those are good but we need something that brings them together and ties them together as opposed to four individual.Thank you, last question and given our desire to see more density and with a scarce amount of land, I talked with some over the freeway and the freeway that sunk down. Is there any feasibility at all given thevery high capital cost trying to figure out to actually build over that freeway?We have not addressed that in this study because it's not part of the bart project. Working with other cities and addressing this topic and the short swsh and working with other projects, as a rule of thumb at workchallenge is if ou are going to try to make those projects paid for through the development that occurs, you generally have to build about 20 stories and you have to build quite a few of them. If they are providing benefit through open space, is there a willingness and does this market support the kind ofdensity if you plan to fund it through that kind of development.Any further questions? I just anted to end the record, madam chair, asking that the city of san jose representative on our board as well as yourself and the city of santa clara, once these documents go out that you and your councils spend time with it and we'll be happy to do a study session on this. Why is this important? Because when we submit our application 3 for the project delivery, we have to demonstrate that we are not only creating value but capture that value that is completely significant to tem. Almost $1 billion a mile. It's going to be important that the investment not just be one that in a community that does not want to see development but also a bart station.Katherine wanted to speak on this item. Public speaker: thank you, good evening, I really like the videospot. Right now i'm speaking as a parent bringing community people together. I noticed the plan is going to include affordable housing and we just want to reiterate that the affordability needs to be down to extremely low-income, not just 50-80 ami, ecause 3 otherwise you are segregating disabled people out of the community and there is a lot of elderly disabled people that need to be part of the community and need access to transit to be independent. And if people like myself of lower income levels that do have cars are going to have gas cars with more pollution. So thinking about ways to get rid of cars.That concludes my report. 3Thank you. chair persons report. Cities within our counties May have opportunities to tap into measure b funds one is the bicycle program of the measure and bicycle and educational programs such as safe routes to school are eligible for funding. An example is san jose's work on september, please encourage people to come together by encouraging walking, bicycling and scootering. I encourage you to use vta. The map is in front of you. We should have events in our city by promoting biking and walking. The challenge is now for s to put together some idea and apply for that measure b funding. Also we have clean air day coming up. I would like to invite you to participate in another day to create new habits to clear the air for ourcommunities. On October 2nd, clean air day, vta will be encouraging people to leave their car at home and find an environmentally friendly way to move. Vta is solely driving increase by 15% a day and asking to clear the air and keeping an eye out for that campaign on the tv channels. So everybody is open to that and see what we can each do in our local communities. The next item for my report is from board member mcallister who is the chair of the ad hoc board enhancement committee.Thank you, the ad hoc board enhancement committee met august 23rd, key items rom that meeting were we received a presentation from the rsm project management team from the vta governance study which is now underway. The goal of the study is to evaluate how current governance structure and help tosupport the organization, missions, goals and objectives and will identify leading practices and enhancements by the board. We will receive regular updates from the study at our upcoming meetings andthese list as properties and will have a full study in december. A side note, i'm pushing to get a report that is effective and the timeline is not that important to me as long as we get the information. The committee reviewed the following guidelines and jurisdictions to make appointments to the vta board and the advisory committee and our goal to identify these tools to the appointed authority to identify and appointing qualify and engage and effective representation. Lastly we performed our final detailed review of response to the civil grand jury reporting earlier tonight. The committee of five people really did get into it. Jim lawson did get it correct that we looked at every period and comma and was the intent of the board and we did spend quite a bit of time on it. I thank my committee members for collaborating and for coming to a consensus that we came about.Thank you for the report and for your efforts for leading us in that committee. That concludes my report.We have early gifts here. Early gifts here. I'm sure it will help us in improving our efforts. Thank you for that. Are there any other items in our roles?This is one highlighted. oar the past couple months mayor liccardo has said that mountain view is doing its share in housing, and I want to appreciate his thoughts about mountain view and that he took the extra step when he was on national news as the backdrop to have the city of mountain view as a backdrop. So, I just wanted to let's you know we have our own mayor. I just don't want you to be -- I do know that mountain view is the center of silicon valley but we do appreciate you taking that particular moment. That was very nice.Thank you, john. if I might, through the chair, I took a lot of heat for it. I think it was fox's national mistake for putting mountain view. I'm not running for mountain view mayor. [ laughter ]All right. items under 8.4 are in your packet and reading folder. Any announcements? Okay, we will go into9. Closed session - - anticipated litigation [government code section 54956. 9(d)(2)] significant exposure to litigation b. Conference with legal counsel - anticipated litigation [government code section 54956. 9(d)(4)] determination whether to initiate litigation no. Of potential cases: 4 c. Conference with legal counsel - anticipated litigation [government code section 54956. 9(d)(4)] determination whether to initiate litigationno. Of potential cases: 2 would like to make an announcement.