Please stand by... chair hendricks: good morning, our September 17, 2021 workshop meeting is called to order. We will now do roll call.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Member abe-koga, member burt, member chavez, member davis, member gilmore, jimenez, member lee, member liccardo, member montano, member paul, member peralez, rennie,9:04 AMChair hendricks: we have additional items on the agenda on the online packet. And we have removed item 4. 1a in a litigated case. We have a hard stop at noon. I would like to remind members of the board and the public o be succinct with comments. Vta just announced that saturday, vta's light rail will be fully operational.9:05 AMRecording was PausedI would like to thank stop for making this happen. It's been a journey. I also want to thank the also a rethat free fare will continue through September 30th. Okay, we are going to move on to our workshop item.2. 1. Information item - receive presentation from staff on zero-emission bus transition scenarios. As I remind my colleagues, to please turn to this item. We have one comment.Good morning, the first item is a presentation on how vta May transition from its current hybrid bus fleet to zero emissions bus fleet. We are required to make this from the california resources board whichrequires all transit operator in the state to have all fully zero emissions buses by 2040. There is a few options to consider. One is the electric buses and the other one is the hydrogen fuel buses. This is all new and evolving which makes planning a little uncertain and each comes with new cost and new requirements within our daily operations. So considering these factors with vta, our goal today is to educate the board about this decision and collect their input about which technology strategy is appropriate for vta as we move forward. I just want to say that staff representing several vta divisions have collaborated on this effort and they are included today, director of technology, ramsey, director of funding allocations and thesenior planner and senior transportation planner and afterwards we'll have time for clarification questions and discussion. I will turn it to adam now.9:07 AMGood morning, board, my name is adam burger, the senior transportation planning group. This decision about changing the technology of our buses will change our vehicles whether dealing with hydrogen orelectric for our buses and those that operate with diesel fuel and could bring new cost or new complexities to our operations. If we don't manage those carefully, it could make a negative impact to our riding public.I will give you a little bit of background on what we have come up with so far and the differenttechnologies and what it would look like if we applied them to the model and will include a staff proposal for how to approach this transition. Then I would love to get your feedback on what you think aut that. A little background on how we got here. In 2018, the ntsb board required that we come to 100% zero emissions bus fleet and that includes a bus roll out plan. Vta did that last year and the title of that means more than it actually does. It merely meets the intent of the 2040 goal and identifies the different technologies to help us get there. It did not commit vta to any action at that time. However, it is meant to be a catalyst in this process and does set the stage for us making this decision. The time is ticking here alittle bit because in 2023, the regulation imposed these targets and in 2023, a minimum of 25% of any bus purchase we make needs to be of zero emissions technology and to be 100% by 2029. The idea is the last year in 2028 when the agency can purchase a bus that will be the end of their life span afrom the entire fleet. And as we look at what we'll have to operate in the future with this technology. That helps us understand the fleet needs, the potential impacts to the public as well as cost. We were developingscenarios to bring to our board for consideration and we realized that some of the considerations about which technology or configuration of technologies really come down to areas that are not so technical and more in the realm of our committees and board, things like long-term planning and capital planning. We went to this meeting in May and talked about what technology would mean if applied to service and askedhow to balance the trade off with increased cost, risk of service delivery and risk of impact to the riding public. Of course to me, I wanted no additional cost and no impact to the scenario but we have a fewissues we haven incorporated. Is it really beneficial to think about this now and whether or not to make it tangible and the other one was can we look at a blend of technology hydrogen bus and other fuel buses.My goal today is to hear from the board if they feel the path that staff has outlined is the right approach and if we are able to coalesce around a common today, I will come to you with a plan to codify that direction to start green lighting the next bus purchase and to make sure we have zero emissions feet, andif we don't, we can continue these discussions and make that action item happen when we are ready. I will note that the sooner we can identify that direction and specific products to help pay for this transition. A little background on the technologies here. Hybrid diesel buses comprise our current fleet and they have simple operations. But operator will take the bus and fill it up which takes about ten minutes. These buses cover 100 miles but also contribute to pollution. It's still not zero and that is the target and they are noisy.They are about 100 million per bus. These buses run on electricity that are stored on batteries. These batteries get charged up at our overnight depot. On that charge a standard bus can travel about 150 miles which is well short of what some of our buses do today on heir daily assignments. There is a way to extend that day is called on route charging. To do that, the buses will locate charging stations generally at transitcenters. While the bus driver takes a little break, they will charge the battery giving them more time for the next charge and that also puts vta operations under some risk because we need these stations to work, otherwise we'll see disruptions. We think that as many as 40 charging stations will be needed for our service. These are zero emissions but expensive at over a million dollars per bus. Vta has been already testing these buses. We have five buses now and there will be more joining us in the future and we've also been testing these buses. We sent out a press release this week about being awarded a california energy grant for the buses in the yard that would install solar panels and will give some degree of energy dependence, micro grid to include a battery to support the charges of these buses and give us some measure of resiliency if we should have a power loss, and it also installs new charging infrastructure that we can test out. If that configuration works, we can copy and paste that throughout our yard if that's the direction we ant to go. The other technology we can consider is hydrogen fuel bus. Instead of testing electricity and batteries, this will store hydrogen in tanks and that will be like a power electric motor. The bus operational will load up the bus and they will have a travel range of 300 miles. They are the most expensive option at $1. 2 million per bus. We looked at this and it was determined it was not viable for our options and the standards were not sufficient and hydrogen as not enough. And we decided not to pursue that technology. But a lot has changed and this is several generations later and a lot of transit agencies incalifornia are looking at this form of transit service. I think we need to shake our mental etch a sketch and realize that hydrogen can be viable for vta. I'm going through seven scenarios over the next two slides.The first is imagine continuing our hydrogen diesel bus operations, we are not considering doing but comparing for the other alternatives. Think of it as a no project scenario. Scenarios, 2, 3, 4 are for battery electric buses but different travel ranges, scenario two is the miles that we achieve today, scenario 3 is the miles and what we think the travel limits might be with batteries and technology that May occur over the next decade or so. Scenario 4, 270 miles that is the market on the product today and there is a bus that is 270 miles but doesn't get there by having a larger battery but by having a much larger battery and that is with a different trade off and it means a lot more wear and tear on the roads and it's carrying around a heavy vehicle and also cuts the capacity of the but. This bus can only carry half of the people which willlead to a lot of incidents where people are being passed up. That is almost a disqualifying factor. Scenario five is to cover all of our electric needs, scenario 6 for the batteries used on the shorter assignments, and -- scenario 7 is the hybrid scenario. I have got a chart here of vta service blocks. Service blocks is the distance the bus travels between eaving the bus depot and you can see that vta has a range here. On the low end we have 20 miles service block for schools and weekdays. And the other we have 390 mile which is route 68 from downtown san jose to downtown gilroy all day. The thing to note here is that vta service blocks are a lot longer than transit agencies and also because we design our service to do field relief. Ourbus operators will meet the driver in the field rather than to take the bus to the depot to make a change and means we'll use more miles which is an efficiency improvement that our riders benefit from but makesthis charge more difficult. This shows the diesel covers this service. Scenario two. 150 mile battery electric bus depot charge scenario. The buses can travel and do those 150 miles quite easily. The real difficultystarts every 150 miles because we would need more diesel to cover those miles. From 400 to 600 bus need and gives us the challenge to how do we store those buses. We probably have to purchase more land or retrofit the garages for additional storage. It also adds to our operation because they would have to be closely managed and make sure they leave on time and get charged on time to not have any interruption of service that the public experiences. That could go wrong and something we don't have today. If we can get up to 220 miles per charge, we can cover about 90% of the coverage that vta operates and 82% of the drive. We would into the ave the shortage with the 150 mile scenario but we would have that complexity in service operations and buses will be carefully managed to make sure we don't have a shortage on service.We can put them on shorter service block to give us a one to one replacement. It does come with those eight related trade offs that we discussed before. The depot harge battery electric bus that benefits fromon route charging could cover all the services that we operate today without increasing the fleet size since the on route chargers have a definite charging range. This is the depot charge battery electric bus with hydrogen fuel cell bus scenario. Colored in the 150 miles for the diesel charged buses that allows for a one to one bus replacement. The pure hydrogen scenario fitting within the 100 mile range. By the tables to summarize all of these different scenarios an contrast some of the important considerations. The thing tonote especially in those yellow rows with scenario 2 and 3, the shorter the travel range, the more buses you will need to add 20 your fleet which adds to the cost and those that are aving to be swapped in and out of service and the drivers spend more time traveling to the bus depot that are out of service and that is time we are paying for the buses and not carrying passengers which is called dead heading and could affect the public service. The travel ranges give us more complexity ith the battery and electric bus scenarios. On route charging ives us the immediate bus complexity and that will be out of the way from the bus depot and will give us reliability risk. You can imagine a scenario where there was a power outage at the palo alto center and that would affect transit riders all the way to san jose and there is another one with a lower risk. With scenario seven, hydrogen fuel cell, everything is handled within the bus decent, but a medium service reliability risk. That reflects concerns upon our operation staff about the durability of hydrogen parts and there could be vehicles down for repair. We want to see that technology improve itself to be reliable before we change that rating. Lastly, cost estimates. Ow the first thing I will advise you to do is look at this with a wide margin of error. We are extrapolating costsover a 15 year period using the boardrecommended methodologies. But I expect that as supply and demand meet this scale of bus production that we are going to see movement in these bus costs and that will happen for fuel infrastructure and for fuel, we are likely to see some fluctuations as well. They are experiencing different technologies and we expect that will change as well over time. It looks like over the next 17 years, vta will have to look for$200 million to make this work. This is where I want to zoom out. We call that good advice in May by not trying to solve everything between now and 2040 today. I saw with scenarios 2, and 4, with battery scenarios and hydrogen no. 7 on the bottom right. The thing to note is that the first five years of scenarios 2 through 6 are exactly the same. It is all buying battery electric buses and deploying them on our shortblock where there is no concern about ranges. We've imagined that if vta took the term plan that does this, that does give us the flexibility to switch to any of the other technologies to make that switch in the futurewhen we have more operating battery electric buses and will see how new products are in the electric market and see how costs have changed. That will give us the flexibility to shift to any technology to the more troublesome blocks. So i'm going to visit those same three tables within a five year context. Since it will be the battery electric buses for scenarios 2-6, those have a one to one replacement ratio and noincrease in our fleet size need. For operating complexity because everything is handled in the depot and put on routes that are not required for them, that puts us in a low risk for viability. The cost estimate for 17 year cost projection. We find scenarios 2-6 come around the same at $235 million making it the cheaper of the option here. So that's why staff is putting forward proposal for a strategic approach that would have us invest in a roughly five year expansion of battery electric buses and charging infrastructure on our yards. With would he -- we would postpone the decision until a time we have more time to daptthese technologies. When I talk about risk, one of the things to note is that hydrogen buses scale differently than battery electric buses. Fuel stations come in 50-100 bus sizes. That comes to purchaselarger vehicles before you are sure that this technology is going to work with your agency. With battery electric buses you can add more buses in equal proportion so there is ot a risk of using more than youdon't use. Lastly, this will be a benefit to transit riders with quieter buses. We have a lot to go through withthese specific plans. I want to call out a few of these and many of them were discussed in the memo. For a funding strategy, the state recognizes that putting this pressure on the transit operators will be an increased cost and there is funding and we plan to compete as much as we can. With that am -- amount offunding is not enough so we want to see how we can get other funding particularly federal funding. In vta we have purchased new buses at times when money has fallen from the sky and the american reinvestment fund and proposition 1b, we made big investments in our fleet. We are looking towards the biden administration for the packet and one of those oportunities. That's what we'll look for is to use these funds as much as we can. I will also call to source energy and sense this is a zero emissions bus that this is an entirely green operation of a bus but that is not the case. If we are burning coal in some other part of the state for the county, that is not exactly preventing climate change. Vta needs to think about the greenenergy it is aking. In 2020, the board adopted the sustainability policy that sets target for energy consumption reduction as well as moving towards cleaner sources of energy, but the board has theprerogative to accelerate that if they we should. Also note no capacity at the bus yard and there will be more service and a larger fleet. You want to think about which technologies fit the best within the cost n our budget as well as the need for the facilities for the bus yards. When we went through our advisory committees, we received positive feedback. Every committee was supportive of the strategic approach that staff put together and there were a lot of comments for that issue. There were wishes that vta accelerates the green nergy consumed. There is about 55% from energy comes from green renewables but that couldincrease, the only factor is cost. They also wanted us to do some future analysis to discuss the greater impact of battery manufacturing and recycling. So just to remind you of where we've been and where we are going, our goal today is to learn from the board of directors if this approach that staff has put together is on the right track or if we should make any changes. With would he like to come ack to you at somepoint to codify your direction. I'm happy to take any questions or receive your input. Thank you.9:32 AMChair hendricks.. aam, hank you very much for presenting that. It's a pretty complex topic and you did it in a way to allow us to have a framework for our discussion and setting it in a way that we'll be able to have a dialogue about that. Before I go to board for comments, let's go to the public for comments then we'll come back to the board.9:33 AMThank you, chair. we have two hands raised. First will be roland followed by blair and kevin. Roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good morning, director. Hydrogen is also a -- fuel.You will discover that hydrogen buses again rate -- generate as much as our buses. The electric bus are our solution. We have already 200 miles range. It is the light rail category. Let's use it and let's forget cal gardeno and let's move with electric buses. Thank you.9:34 AMThe next speak is blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair. Thank yofor the information. This is the stuff we were planning to work on in May in the summer. Thank you forbringing it up now. This is our future good stuff, and this is our sustainable future. Good luck how we can do it. I'm really impressed you went o work on some of the electric buses on the east side, charging station issues. I think that's where the charging stations will be placed. Good luck n these efforts. Thisprogram seems more stable than the automatic vehicle program. The tube from diridon to the airport can be positive too.9:36 AMJames, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I think it will be important and for vta to have a clear plan as a way to expand service in the future so we can correctly plan for the long-termneeds with the size of the buses here today because hopefully we do plan to increase service in the long-term and that will presumably impact the needs for planning for our future bus fleet. Thank you.He next speaker is kevin. public speaker: good morning, board. I'm kercvin. I agree wit the staff that we should think about how to increase service d what vta is targeting because have what you have all heard in the news that we need to take as much drastic action as we can to reduce emissions and we do want to be sure that as much as of our transportation fleet is electrified. We also need to make sure that in the future we have more buses so more people can take transit rather than taking the cars. Most of the emissions and transportation sector at this point. Thank you.9:37 AMOur final speaker will be monica. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, this ismonica melon. I'm speaking for myself as i'm a transit rider. I really appreciate this draft plan he staff has proposed. If there are emissions -- I would be interested in increasing services in the future. This isimportant since there are some federal bills right now that would prat operational fund being # -- funding and there is more support from our local congressman in the county. Other than that, i'm supportive of thedirection this is going in.9:38 AMThat concludes public comment.Chair hendricks: thank you. I will now close public comment and go to board members. Member chappie?9:39 AMI appreciate the way you framed it and that is helpful in terms of us being able to make a thoughtful decision and I whole heartily support your recommendation. I have a question on funding. You mentioned federal grants, state grants, but that's a competitive process, there is no guarantees. Do we have a plan b,c, or d if we don't get that grant funding?Well, that's a good question and I don't know what funding necessarily will be here for us in the future.There is certainly potential that vta will have to commit some of its own funding for this. One thing to note is that the air resources board that they have these requirements of when you need to start purchasing buses they do provide for those exemptions and those exemptions include if they procure for the cost of these agencies or if it would negatively impact our service or if the buses are not available at that time. We can request from the air resource board for those reasons. We are able to move at our own pace as the funding becomes available, but the oard doesn't want this to become an option as a way to ignore this regulation. I think there is some -- finish --ness to be had over the year.9:41 AMAnd as anticipation of this range, if we are saying they have a range of 150 miles, what actual range are you using as far as your calculation or determination in terms of the size in fleet and makingrecommendations?So I have been using 40 foot battery electric buses in those scenarios. 40 foot is the most common in our fleet. I will note about the ranges, you are correct. There is the numbers that comes with the vehicles andthe numbers that you actually experience. There are a lot of factors that play into the range that you get and since this moves the buses powered in the systems whether it's a hot day or cool day. And also the style of driving as the operator can be a factor. Some have seen 30% suspension in travel ranges based on very cautious drivers versus more aggressive drivers. These buses have a closer to 200 mile ranges with a wear down in time of the battery and noticing the conditions of a freezing day or hot day, 150 miles is therange we are comfortable in. Did I answer your question?9:42 AMTotally, you did factor in all of those issues.Yes.My last question, for lack of a better word, a sweet spot in terms of range for our network, looking at your chart, it seems like it's about 280 miles, but I want to understand from you. The sweet spot in terms of range?It is a range, so there is not a singular spot. That would be a great progression to get to. I think the reality is the advancement in technology is going to dictate what this case is.9:43 AMThank you, adam. that's all I have.Next is board member jimenez.Thank you. wonderful presentation and I appreciate the clarity in which you presented it. There is a lot ofinformation in the five year strategy and the approach seems to make sense to me. I just had a few questions. The first ne is, I had a chance to tour one of the stations, chaboya and saw the buses andchecked them out and asked questions about the life span of buses. I'm curious about is does the life span of the bus change with these technologies, does that impact it at all and if so, is that taken into account interms of the cost with these approaches?9:44 AMHat is a very good question with a complicated answer. On the one hand, a lot of buses out today have not been on the road for that life span to know what that will be. For hydrogen buses or using electric motor, they are more than a diesel bus, however we are finding that the second generation of these buses arehaving a lot of operational issues with their buses and with their fleet, it seems that both vta and the airport are not able to operate our full fleet everyday on a daily basis. Only one or two buses made it toservice an they spend a lot of time own for repair. There is an issue that comes with that repair. When you have a small fleet, the economics is that you can have a stock pile of a lot of parts. So when somethingcomes down, we are waiting for the manufacturer to ship it to us and the time down is longer. And since these buses are heavy with the battery and more expensive, they are incentived to make them lighter and they are generally not as durable as we have seen in our hydrogen bus fleet. That has led to a lot of non-drive issues for our buses. For example, our disability wheelchair lift has 100% failure and all of our wheelchair lifts failed. So a lot of our vta buses are out to hit that 12 year life span and we are makingsure we are qualified with the availability of the bus and replacement by the manufacture.9:46 AMYes, that's concerning and I understand how it can get a little complicated. One thing I learned when Ivisited the chaboya facility, I don't remember all the details but somewhere around the liens of the federal government providing some funding for the purchase of buses, but if we don't utilize them up to aparticular amount of time, we have to compensate them or repay some of that cost. I know that's a very generic sort f explanation, but assuming I understood that correctly, I would be curious as to how you that plays out in regard to some of these buses, if we are going to have issues with them functionally.9:47 AMYou are correct about the federal funding. They do not want us to retire buses before their operational time. In southern california, they with one of the first agencies to jump in the game and used federal funds to buy bus fleet about eight years ago and now those buses are irreparable and they can't get parts for repair their buses. They are in a tough position. This is something we have to think about.9:48 AMYeah, okay. that's also concerning. Okay, thank you for that. Lots to ponder and think about. The other question I had is you talked a little bit about and I think the slides mentioned working with pg & e, it mighthave been in one of the attachments as it relates to the issue of power. I understand that if we have some of these power generation source energies at some of the bus dpots, there are opportunity to make themresilient and micro grade, things of that nature. If we have charging stations around different parts in different cities along the routes, my question is obviously there is some resiliency to assuming o micro grids that we have at the depots, but considering the frequency of the power shutoffs and that these May become more frequent, how bad is the impact to these stations related to some of the power shutoffs. Iwonder if you have thought about and how that would impact on the ability for some of the buses tocharge while out on the field. It seems that we have less control of that as well.9:49 AMWe are going to have to do some research here. I don think it's practical to putten micro grids to these charges to be located. One thing to wait is to see how well they work with other agencies and how they fairwith those issues rather than vta taking the risk.9:50 AMRight. i'm curious if this issue lends itself to some partnerships with cities along the route that are actively seeking out these approaches. I think that will besc cI don't plan any city partnerships but if there is a way to do that with close agencies, we will listen.The very last question I have and it's related to, you alluded to during the course of your presentation and even answering some of my questions that some agencies have gone ahead and experimented with some of this technology for a few years maybe and May have had some hiccups and learning opportunities. Isthere any reason that vta didn't take advantage and go down that route of exploring and I think maybe we have to a certain extent but exploring some of those technologies and being on the cutting edge of seeing what works and what doesn't. I expect we have some hydrogen buses already, but maybe we have butcurious as to why we didn't jump to some of those opportunities.9:51 AMI think some agencies have had leadership at the board level that have been more interested that have a national mind on zero emissions technology that have pushed other gencies to do this and others have had partnerships with niversities to test out some of these technologies. At vta we have had a lot ofconsiderations around tightening our budget to frame us from testing out new things.9:52 AMI appreciate that answer. we are in this area that we reside in kern county, san mateo county where we are seeing a lot of innovation, and I would like to see vta work in a direction where we are taking advantage ofsome of the brain where we can explore this in the future. Thank you. I appreciate this information.Thank you. member burt?Thank you. I appreciate your report and the plan to take us into a five year acquisition model for full service blocks. Can you clarify for me the cost projections and the range projections for the batterypowered buses. Are those all based upon current costs?9:53 AMSo the bus cost we are using are extrapolations of current cost to include all the components like batteries.When you say extrapolations, are you saying that's the forward projected cost?The methodology from the current resource board is current cost and that will not change in the future and that is something I don't think it will be correct. I just don't know which will be wrong.Oh, so that's a very important issue in my mind. I don't quite get that we don't know which direction it's going to go. In electric vehicles in general, and a great ependence on battery costs as a driver there for the cost of the batteries, 2 energy density, that is the weight and size ratio to how far they can go. How rapidly they can be charged affects that whole recharging cycle and the safety of the batteries all have clear projections, various industry sources, the doe have their projections. The projections I have seen in thenext coming few years show that the average costs and these are certainly within ranges of batteries would go from maybe in the vicinity of I think it was around $130 per kilowatt hour in 2020 to the neighborhood of half that by just 2024. Even in that five year range, a drastic reduction in battery cost. Itcould be more or less than that, but these are very significant drops that are occurring nd this is why the whole electric vehicle market issen -- in such a transformation. I would like to see a projection with rangebars, but what are the current best understanding of anticipated cost reductions there. I just don't see anyway to have discussion and any tentative decision making assuming that battery costs are going to stay constant. For that matter, even the vehicle fleets it's not ust batteries, we have huge advancements in the related technologies, the motor technologies and otherwise that are going on, but the biggest drivers are the battery changes. And similarly on the power source, we actually in california, we have I think in the entire state one remaining coal plant that is. 15% total in the power supply in the state, but we have power that is because the generated but the contract that we can enter into is competitive in the rates andprimarily that's solar and that is provided with a certain amount of battery storage at the site of the generation. Those contracts are very competitive and falling and as they have been for the last nine or ten years. And similarly even on the hydrogen side, first, Mr. Lebron is correct that hydrogen today is overwhelmingly not clean generated as ossil fuel generated but the biden administration has just begun amassive investment called green hydrogen which is renewables and electrolysis with hybrid water and that green hydrogen is considerably more expensive than the fossil fuel generated but it's expected to almost $2 kilogram to 2025 and that is starting to be competitive many these are very significant changes that can change the complete modeling on where we are going. I would like to see our decision making not based on current technologies because they are not stagnant and not projected to be stagnant and can fall very significantly. I think that needs to be the basis for our decision making. So I would be interested to hear my colleagues thoughts on those principles on how we should be making these decisions on thisvaluable report.9:58 AMYour comments are well-taken and when it comes to estimating the bus cost, I do expect the battery trend cost to go down and we are seeing an overall cost increase and I don't know how to demand will take out and based on this resource requirement and also the curre production of these vehicles.9:59 AMI will just add that we have seen similar patterns as we have renewable mandate from the state when we went to a 33% and above. There were disruptions in the lag between ramping up supply and corresponding to bubbles in demand. Utilities like pg & e were competing with ther utilities in the state and they basically locked in some big power purchase agreements during periods where they were competing with other utilities and we were more opportunistic and that's why it's lower than pg & e right now and 100% carbon neutral. The community choice aggregateors that are major players.10:00 AMChair hendricks: member burt. I think we have a point. You have more details and aken into account. Do you have anymore?I will wrap it up but it's fundamental to making our decision on this that I do think the market has disruptions but they are not necessarily going to be unfavorable in the change over a period of time.Yeah, I think your point o staff isn't that we are going to need more detail in the issues that you are describing.Glen, just real quick on information to members, we didn't show a variation in cost on the electric buses based on the size of the battery pack. Is that correct?10:01 AMWe are taking our current round number of $1 million a bus and projecting that into the future.From the 150 range to 270 range?Yes.And that might vary?Yes. #Chair hendricks: next is member chavez.Great report. I want to reflect on what was said and one thing we are looking at for sure is volatility and we are going to have to follow that pattern and really be as disciplined as we can about understanding theimplications of whatever choices we make. A couple things I wanted to make sure of and that is one, Iwanted to make sure that whatever option we use doesn't force us to rely on diesel generation for emergencies. One of the things that we have been experiencing as we have gone through the wildfires andthe power shutoffs, is that the wildfires produce all kinds of toxic pollutants. When we have the power shutoffs, and because of heat, the vast majority are using diesel and that puts out more in the air than us cleaning the air. I want to be sure that we are thinking about others other than that back up. I do also want to say that I think reliability is going to be an issue. It is a reason that it's worth us taking a look atall of the options. I think particularly as it relates to hydrogen, I think adam raised a good point bit years ago and we thought we would never go that route, but i'm not sure we are going to need to have the cleanrenewable energy that is not fossil fuel base that backs up this energy source that creates redundancy for us. I say that because I want to be sure we are hinking about it. I will pause now because I know you are managing the meeting. I do want to talk to the mechanics and the drivers as we are looking at all of these because the folks who really know what happens on the ground are the folks who are on the ground doing the work. If they are not part of our advisory committee, I want to be sure we add them. Thank you.10:04 AMThank you.Member lee --Thank you. I would like to know what service crew is needed for this. I know he mentioned training that would need to be done. But do we need to have a different type of servicing to accommodate these other type of buses, or would we e able to utilize the service area that we have now? And then, does it cost more or still require more energy for the batteries. I know it's going to cost more, but the one thing I would like to better understand is the stations. I wasn't clear as to how we would get that. Would that be near ouryard or something that we would be developing or building?10:05 AMSure. as for the training, that is something that we are going o have to figure out in future stages of planning. Our maintenance and operation folks will be making vehicle choices as to the impacts and the facility needs to be able to support them. We will provide training to the staff for how you to -- to use these technologies. For the hydrogen, they include large tanks and various compressors and otherapparatus to bring this up to pressure like your gas station that we will build inside of ur bus yard.10:06 AMThe service charge will be the same service charge we are using now, correct?The surrounding yard and yards are what the battery electric buses are operating out of now and using less space at the moment. That is where our more efforts will be regardless of which technology we pursue.The last question I would have is making sure we better understand the deposition of these batteries on buses and which one we choose because as we move forward, we are probably making a different in one area, but we might be creating a problem in another area. So I just want to make sure that we are sensitive in that area just like there is one thing people thought plastic water bottles was a thing and then it becomes a problem that no one has really considered the impact of what it's been. Thank you for that.One more thing, which one is more aligned to our green policy that we have?10:08 AMSo that will depend on the source energy. With battery electric buses, there is one on green source energy and the one with the grid to charge the buses to make it completely green. Hydrogen, about 99% ofhydrogen produced is done through net refining that releases a lot of casrbon dioxide as hydrogen. There are ways to get green grading for biomass. Either technology could be green, but we'll have to figure out the details on what the cost will be.10:09 AMWonderful, and you will be providing this to us.Will this be passed?This will go to community and then come back to the full board.Thank you.Member peralez?Thank you very much for your time. Information. It seems like it esn't include then route charges, correct?That's correct.And the goal is looking over the next five years for the funding opportunity or technology opportunity to move towards to help us in regards to not having to stick to some of these shorter routes.10:10 AMThat's correct. some routes have been difficult. One bus did have a fire due to these chargers. We'll have to see how it develops so it doesn't present problems that we are not willing to accept if that's the route we want to go.Okay, I think that is the route ultimately we should go but I recognize how new this technology is, but I think in being able to keep our buses on the road and be able to utilize them on all of our routes, I don't think we have to have them all over especially if we started off slower, we can pilot some of the longer routes. That would be the direction I would love to see us go and in the current path we grow on allows for that and in the future years and keep that operation going. I appreciate your report and i'm in support of this direction. Thank you.10:11 AMThank you. member rennie?Thank you. I will keep this short because most has already been said. I would like to thank adam for capturing the comments particularly mine and others around sustainability and reminding us that we passed a climate resolution a while back and we will be looking at these from a climate perspective.Member burt went into some f the details that I had mentioned before. Hydrogen has its challenges as roland mentioned and we should get around to what is certified that is green and all of these things that the technologies mature are going to get cheaper. The other thing i'm ot sure was completely covered is I do like the idea around charging if we can get the technology working because there is going to be a lot more charging during the day with our grid is more green with more solar. I'm worried about having to do a lot of charging at night when the load is over producing energy. You can have a large battery back up where you charge those during the day and transfer those at night. E-mail not sure what technologysolution are going to work best for us, but to keep thinking with these things in mind. I also wanted to just highlight a little bit bout what monica said about the i'm sure we are aware that we'll need to find new financial models to fund our buses and get the buses back to where they were. That might mean needing more buses than our plan, an let's please pursue those potential federal bills that might bring in some newfinancial structures o cover our operations. Thanks.10:13 AMChair hendricks.. cool, i'm not seeing anymore hands. I want to give you my thoughts. I really appreciate the way you put out these scenarios, but for me the strategy options we have is really depot charging, onroute charging and hydrogen. The scenarios are a little bit of how we can mix and match those different things. It appears what we are going to do is let go down the depot charging and what size bus it is and range, but this tactic is depot charging. I totally upport that for where we are at. One thing I would like to see in the same five year timeframe is what can we in parallel with that, at some level be able to explore and understand the on route charging and hydrogen piece. I know you said ith hydrogen there is a big upfront thing with how large the station is. If we are not able to do a small pilot on route charging, I would like us to actually look and try to find other agencies that we can partner with on the on route charging for hydrogen. I say on route because some of the agency does this and write a report and we are able to readit but an agency to match and find the problems as we are in so we have collaboration and we are a little bit more involved in than to just read someone else's report and extrapolate it. I'm comfortable with the route and starting in the depot route area and the variations, but let's work with the other strategy so we are not having to wait either pilot or work with those other agencies. The other one is money is going to be a bigger challenge and those will cost money. Even grants will come from state and federal and we'll have our own matching money with the infrastructure and everything. So i'm really interested in parallel with this if we can start to do a more deeper dive from a financial perspective to drive off. Whether we need $100 million or $300 million, whatever the number is, none of those numbers re sitting around waiting for us to get. I think money is oing to have to be a really important piece. One other question, the laws driving us to zero emissions, did those laws apply to all the buses driving around our cities and counties?10:17 AMThey do not. in fact transit agencies are in a tough scenario here. They are trying to spur investment in the zero emissions technology base that will carry to heave diesel trucking where the most miles and environmental impacts occur. They are using us to jump start this market.We May want to look at some of our legislative advocacy especially in our county in a prepandemic world, there are a lot of them out on the road. We'll have to see how that does.Do any of my members want to comment? member montano.Thank yu, I appreciate the five year plan for operations. But the other is we are trying to eliminate our carbon footprint and i'm thinking that maybe we should start thinking about areas in the uture for long distance bus routes. It seems we should be parallel with the bussing and think of other innovative modes of transportation. I would like to see that in the future hopefully with a board that is more prone to technology and I would like to see more of that and with regard to the transit plan, but that's just food for thought. Thank you.10:19 AMThank you. chair hendricks. . I'm not seeing anymore colleagues. Adam, you have given us a lot here andhopefully with the comments, you will be able to come back with some action items. I really appreciate you trying to chart a path forward with where we are going to go. With that, I will end item 2. 1 and go to item 2. 2. The fy 2017 - fy 2019 and fy 2020 201610:20 AMJane is going to provide this report.I want to be done no later than 10:50.Okay, great. thank you.Good morning members. jane, with the measure 16 program to provide reports for 2016-2019 to 2020.This brings all the documentation into one document. Our report uses numbers from the annual comprehensive financial report known as the cafr financial report. I would like to say the reason that the first report covers three fiscal years as you May remember, those collections began April 1st of 2017. Due to a lawsuit there was little activity with the program so it made sense to the auditor's and the program team to combine two fiscal years into the report. As shown each of the reports include this on the slide.This slide and the next slideshow the revenues and income earned as far as program tax revenue during this reporting cycle. All of these are in the annual report. The top slide is income earned in the fiscal year which is identified by the comprehensive annual financial report. S includes interest income and losses and resources and short-term ivestments. The bottom identifies sales taxes collect during the fiscal year and tax revenue. The program tax revenue equals revenues with any income earned minus the services in cost.You can see the tax revenue at the end of fiscal year 19 is $495 million. Slide 5, similar information butwith data from 2020 and the program tax revenue at the end of fiscal year 20 is $726 million. This slideshows the board allocations for each of the program categories. For 18-19, $9 million in allocations and because of the lawsuit, we were not able to work with this in the 019. Because vta is an is approved on the biennial basis we show fiscal 20-21. Through fiscal 21 which just ended June 30th of this year. Theboard has approved $756 million in allocations. Just a reminder that this is an allocation, the amount up to hich a program can spend. There is more detail in the allocation in the report. Now we'll quickly look at how much program categories approved allocations were spent. It's a little bit difficult to read, but the blue bar shows each program categories allocation and the yellow bar shows the expenditure. Due to the lawsuit program activity and the expenditures were limited and you can see that is reflected here. And here you see the expenditure through 2020 and we show the allocation through fy21 for reasons that Imentioned previously. This slide is to show you sid s look at revenues and expenditures per fiscal year. The phenol -- inal data opponents to our program and as far as the expenditures. -- the next few slides show you the highlight that we include in each of our annual reports. There are more highlights in each report.In our 2020 report, the city of saratoga providing a report. Such annual report will follow in our cool. We have the 2021 reported in june. We expect this report will be published in spring of 2022. Shifting from the past to present. I want to provide some current program highlights. The board has recently approved thecurrent biennial budget 2022 and 2023. And which include the formula based programs and the need capacity based programs. The proposed amendments to the highway interchanges and caltrain grade separation programs will be proud to the November committees and December board. To complete the program, this will need to occur. We are currently working with city staff on the biennial budget and ten year program allocation request. All of those requests will be subject to the board adoption of this criteria.For highway interchanges, these reports were released and applications due Tuesday October 12, 2021.This is for the new program funding categories. We ask that you submit applications for legible projects if you are interested in moving forward. Though it's a tight deadline, we expect o bring the allocationproposals to the November committee and the board. And like the promise, the highway projects allocations will need to be moved through the preadopted for this criteria. Femalely after the boardapproves the budget, we are going to adopt the project clean ups with guidelines to ensure the principles that you approved earlier this year s well as changes for programs adopted in 2017. We will bring next year in your committees. With that, i'm ay to end my presentation and take any questions. Hope that was fast enough to keep you on schedule.10:28 AMJane, you get the award for the lightening round. Thank you for getting through it and covering the major points. Before we go to members, let's go to public comments.Public speaker: thank you. The only question I have right now is the discrepancies between slide 7 and the map submitted to committees yesterday. If someone can explain that, I would appreciate it. Otherwise I look forward to your conversations. Thank you.10:29 AMNext speaker is blair. public speaker: thank you. To try to summarize this item and my feelings. A reminder that our former general manager nuria fernandez, she did an incredible job how to bring together different parts of the budgeting ideas in the time of covid. She really worked on transit ideas and her work was admirable. Monica melon who spoke today as we are looking forward for federal funding plans to deliver to our local level. It sounds like vta has real issues of reporting budgeting concerns. How we look at energy and answer cindy chavez questions. Overall good luck to ourselves. Thank you.10:30 AMChair, that concludes public comment for this item. Thank you.Okay, i'm going to close public comment. Before I go to my colleagues, jane, do you have any response to the comments that there might have been some difference in the numbers in terms of what you presented in the placemat?Yes, these reports ae, look at the past. The information on slide 7 is the member of the public that was stated, that in the place map includes board allocations to 2023. We have approved allocations to date areabout $957 million and when we bring the last few program categories to you in december, we hope that you do approve an amendment to provide allocations. That's the difference.10:31 AMThanks, that's what I thought it was. When you are doing annual reports, they are looking backwards.Thank you for that information. Mr. Simitian, you have your and up.Thank you, chair, colleagues and staff. Just a couple quick points. First, thank you o staff. I'm very pleased to hear that the plan emains that the measure b program completion will come to and through our various committees for public comment and review as well in November with adoptions of these last categories in december. I think that's an important timeline and appreciate staff's efforts to hold fast to that. Colleagues will recall at one point we had been hoping to take these issues up in May and adopt the ten year timeline in June and for reasons staff described didn't happen but I hope to wrap it up this year and that remainsthe plan. Also some clean up on the franz to make sure the guidelines conform to the general work donethis year and prior year. The timeline in spring or summer make sense. I want to confirm that until that clean up is made that it makes sense and the adoption is controlling and if there were conflicts with the old guidelines and the recently adopted principles for control and if the staff can verify that, it would be helpful.10:33 AMYou are correct. those were adopted in 2017.Thank you. and this is a house keeping matter but an important one. We have a long standing vacancy onthe citizens oversight committee and my understanding is that this is a position set aside for retired federal tate or administrative law Judge And this hasn't been filled for 3 or 4 years. My understanding is that by board direction back to 2017, hat if a position cannot be filled per category, some other person be filled that would produce a second person from one of the other categories. Is my recollection correct?10:34 AMOff the top of my head I do not recall but I can look at the oversight committee and get back to you.All right. let me reference appendix 10. 3 of the reports beginning on page 44. Mr. Chair, maybe we can ask nor a report at our next board meeting, just a report on the status of that because I don't think we are getting the oversight that we had hoped for and asked from the public for years. It's one that's beenhanging out there for a while. I think that's my 123 of it. Thank you. If there is no objection, if we can getreport on that at the next meeting on that vacancy hat would help to ensure it doesn't get lost in the shuffle.10:35 AMChair, if I may. director simitian, you are correct in putting someone in of a different category and we willlook into the status.Chair hendricks.. member simitian, reading between the lines, instead of a report, if we can have staff do is to try to explore and research to see if we can find other candidates to fill the position sense we have that flexibility. Is that what you are asking?10:36 AMA thumbs up.Unless I have disagreement from other members of the board here. Let's see when we can do from a recruiting perspective to see if we can get somebody since that has been an unfilled position for a long time.I am done, thank you.Okay. are there any other comments or thoughts from my colleagues? I'm not seeing any hands. I'm going to speak to this. I hope to see this final n November and December and then we'll start to look at the next set of cycles but finally get this first round going. Thank you so much, i'm not seeing any other comments.I'm going to end item 2. 2. That brings us to item 3 which are other items and announcements. Would any of my colleagues like to make any announcements? It looks like I have a hand up from the public. Are we doing public comment here?10:37 AMNo, but there is a hand up from the public for comment on closed session.I want to say, it's really exciting that the whole rail system is going to be up and operational again. If you can use social media and get the word out as much as possible. That will take us to item 4 to closed session. We are removing item 4. Aon closed session. They are on the screen. I do want to note that 4.1ax, richard is not going to be joining us and max eagan is going to provide information on that item. Is there any information on this item?10:38 AMYes, chair, to remind the public, this public comment is specifically for items that are on the closed session agenda. With that, please accept the unmute and begin speaking when ready.Public speaker: thank you, blair beak man, these are items to speak on the litigation, if I May speak on this?10:39 AMGo ahead.Thank you. once again to offer, victims are looking for answers from vta, what can we do for our future tobuild a better future. I really got to emphasize how much open the democratic processes are positive and they help the entire community. They really can do an amazing good work. Accountability practices withtechnology, for the future of technology is kind f a leader and guidelines and good examples, how to build a more peaceful open democratic future. The ideas of peace, not war. It's really interesting stuff. It's an important answer that victims need to look at and how to build a future in santa clara county. This is the future.10:40 AMThank you. i'm not seeing other public comment on that. To my colleagues on the board, you have received a teams link on your calendar invite. You can turn mute and turn off your video for zoom because we are going to need to come back after to go to closed session and use your eam link to join the closed session and I look forward to seeing you all there. Thank you very much. We'll go into closed session.This is elaine from the board office. I will be muting you now. Thank you.