I will call the meeting to order. The vta board meeting for Friday for June 21st, 2019 I now called to order.Board member. [roll call]Board madam chair, we have a quorum.9:04 AMThank you very much. let's all rise for the pledge of flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. .That takes us to item 1.3, order of the day. Next item, 7. 2. On the consent agenda. Does anyone else have any ot changes to the agenda. All in favor say, 'aye'.9:05 AMAye.Any opposed?Now we have items of commendation. We'll take item 2. Awards and commendation. W have two very valuable employees who are be retiring today. The first is chris -- [ applause ] [ cheers and applause ]Can I please have a moo accept the resolution for chris. Whereas chris augustine, director of the santa clara valley transportation authority and the vta design, you have a lot of stuff, chris. Whereas ultimately resulted in a projected $6. 3 billion in funds for santa clara valley transportation authority and nowtherefore be it resolved th the vta board of directors commends its sincere gratitude and this resolution is presented by the vta. Congratulations on your retirement. [ applause ] we are informed that when wediscuss these items, -- [ applause ]9:07 AMMay I adopt a motion for jimmy. [ cheers and applause ] [ cheers and applause ] whereas james, deputy director of capital planning for santa clara valley transportation authority with 34 years of distinguished public service and where he worked tirelessly to improve services for all residents of santa clara county.And worsts he worked collaboratively and now therefore be it resolved the board of directors expresses itssincere sincere gratitude for the years of service this 21 day of ju 2019. Congratulations, jim. [ cheers and applause ] don't let it fool you. He' actually from ohio. Go buckeyes and his loyalty to the team of the cleveland area surpasses a loyalty to the warriors. [ laughter ] anyway, nonetheless, thank you, jim. All right. I think our chair should probably take the vote.9:09 AMCouncil member teresa o'neill: do we have a second? All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? thank you very much. Thank you very much to chris and jim, and we certai wish you all the best and we will miss you. [ applause ] 3. Public comment this portion of the meeting is reserved forpersons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 2 minutes. The law does not permit board action or extended the first speaker: ( calling names )( calling names ) please lineup if you could. I would apprecia it. Public speaker: hi, good morning. Thank you. The vta has to respectfully balance the needs of its two distinct models of transportation that isdeveloping. The vta has as a good local mass transit agency good government mass transit agency and a place of enter entrepreneurial corporate ideas of transportation. Public transportation is off around thephilosophy that someone wants to end mass transit and with the relentless push for automobiles and looking for deeper ways fo ridership. The bicycles found a new way around the 1990s a created a better ridership for vta and less reliance on fossi fuels and more shared cooperation between people. The vta found itself in a difficult position. The idea was to t- the vta has created two dist separate concepts in its system. I hope each side can respece good. I hope both sides can make open and clear the ideas and beliefs to decide. How to peacefully manage the two sides can help address how to be o with the public as well in the future. Good luck with your efforts. Thank you.9:12 AMThank you very much. public speaker: good morning, director, my name is andrew boone, city council district 6. I would like to echo the statement about this vision for vta and to provide the serv and to align the goals for the community now and in the future. We are falling short and the civil grand jury reportpublished a week ago about which is an excellent article published in the news four hours ago that details this critical report and the criticism is well due, i'm sorry. And thank you, director o'neill for pointing out that we do have these problems. It's nothing that we haven't submitted before. The bus system is under funding right now and a lot of our goa are not being met. One of the ways to consider is the different structure of this board. I hope the members of this board take that seriously when we have a public meeting about that. I felt for man years that you should be elecd directly by the voters as is the bart members. I lived in san francisco and had the opportunity and honor to vote for my representatives on thebart board. I was able to ch the different candidates and about different ideas in the bay area. We at santa clara county want to have that choice too. This will empower the board to be more influential, to ask fotaxes when they are needed. When you are on the board to elect for other positions. I think problems result from that. The time when you are obligated to serve on the vta board. Some members if they are elected would be their full time job. Thank you very much.9:14 AMThank you. roland lebron? public speaker: thank you, good morning, this morning I would like to talk about what is not being talked about which is phase 1 and phase 2 during the regular monthly meetingapproximately six months ago when a member of the public brought to your attention of the fact that they owe over $1 million for phase 1 and also in the ballpark of $800 million too and my question is what do thehave to show for it? Goink to the comments, what the previous speakers said, now we don't have enough for our bus drivers. This morning, they were running slow. I left the house early and got there on time.Guess what happens to the people trying to make it on time. I will come back for item 9 wi my own recommends. Thank you public speaker: my name is veronica and a resident. This comment is about getting more funding for bus service. I l this morning to catch the la bus but I watched the same meeting about the measure and I want to comment on member chav and mcallister that funding should be included and at hi levels and should focus on gos and projects. Unfortunately when I saw the project yesterday I learned that only $3 million is available for capacity operators which includes all transit allegations and to be transformative category for all of these projects even if they will not provide the long-term service for this demand. Your historical data shows that more people will take the bus. In the early 2000s the busridership was much higher. It is your time to increase this service and shift the dialogue around these highway projects are not the long-term solution in this county and the vta ar and how they connect to eachother to better understand what current riders are doing to more riders. I think we can really not just focus on choice rider but also get people that are interested in transit, transit dependent. I hope that you willconsider extending the bus network so we can actually connect to rail. Thank you.9:18 AM> thank you, Mr. Bradley. public speaker: thank you. I have been coming here for many years and it's the same thing as before. Get rail traffic. The pledge is for the ones getting in traffic. As for the grand jury report, that does not com to us as another surprise. We are not very good at history. So let's stop repeating the history that caused us to get here. Albert einstein says you can't solve the problem if yo are creating the problem in the first place. Let's get the people that have been voting for these taxes after all, santa clara county has had this and ridership has decreased and you are underfunded. This is simply not enough and highway expansion never works. When was the la time vta staff ever talked abo a highway project that is actually released. Think about it.9:20 AMWe don't have any public hearings today. We are going to the consent agenda. What we are going to do is we'll take the comments that were for 7. 2 also. First we have andrew boone an followed by howard miller.And roland lebron. Public speaker: thank you, good morning, my name is daniel boone. I am a candidate -- I have seen the plans and maybe relocating the station or expanding the station north of where it is or south of wheret is. My whole thing about this station is bart isn't really integrated. If you get off bart and go up the escalator and you have to cross santa clara street and walk across the large parking lot across the tunnel. It is a long walk. Bart is simply a different level of a multilevel diridon station. That's the high quality, that's the world class, that's the b you can do. If you are ton # tunnelling bart, that's the oneplatform. I look at the drawings and say it is not at integrated as it could be. The other thing, my other concern have is the preservation of the current building of the diridon station. It isn't stated in these meetings but you are showing drawings of a different place implying this building won't remain there. It should s even if we determine to say better location for serving lots of people for transferring bart etc is further to the north which makes sense at santa cla street.9:23 AMPublic speaker: howard miller. I used this service once a month. The problem is the drop zone in front of the station. I'm waiting for my kid and m about 100 miles an hour and there is a lot of families that are in that zone. While they cover all the traditional modes of transit buses and taxes an ubers, the drop off, whatever the official term is seems to be absent. I see a lot of people use it regularly. I don't know how you work it in, but I go out there Friday afternoons, you will find a lot of family members dropping off a lot of husbands, wives and kids all getting on the train. I think you need to figure out how t work that back into the plan. As for anything else, I don't know how you will pick, but y have a couple of great optio thank you. Public speaker: hi, i'm interested in the diridon station and i'm figuring the high-speed rail situation, itMay not be able to enter I san jose at this time, yet there is a feature of this high-speed rail that is an option to hg high-speed rail ready for san jose. I hope you can be rea for that and really for publictransportation needs. How the new station can serve low-income people. I just learned just yesterday and embarrassingly so that on the radio that was spoken how this current idea o this current high-speed rail the help of gavin newsome by goin to the merced area that there can be a rail line that ca travel from merced to the bay area. That can be the skeleta model that the governor is being used. Why can't we talk about that so we can have a refere point how things work here in san jose. I don't want to inhibitor hinder yourselves fr what you can do and carve out ideas to say the fresno area ad san jose and a straight linefrom san francisco to san jose I hope you can be open to about it to understand those facts and make a better decisi out of those facts. Thank yo public speaker: thank you, you will be glad when you hear fr all of these constituents. But the first thing that you have to understand, we know where the constraints are.We know what google wants to do. We know w have to enable connector and we know that google has spoken of the trains and we need some ki of transportation. At the end of the day we just left the sta with what we did and we May actually learn from foster and partners and the organization. In fact all the platforms are the same length. 1400 feet long. It's precisely what we did and then we said how I heck are we going to fit 1 foot platforms within the existing footprint with the station and everything else. One of the key principles is that since all the platforms are the same length, we cannot pu this along the same way. In th end we put -- essentially in n franciscocious there is a difference now where the station is and then right after that are basically getting to the embarcadero station.9:29 AMCouncil member teresa o'neill: thank you, were there any other board members that wanted to speak on the consent calendar.Yes, my question about vta providing $3 million for a future date. I'm wondering do we have an identified source for that and what's the nature of the commitment. Is that a commitment that mtc is going t hold us to?Ms. madam chair, I would like to ask who brought this item the board's approval to explain why we are taking this approacTo answer board member liccardo's first question, we have identified two potential sources and working internally to determine which one will serve the project best. Thiss the commitment that mtc is requiring.It's a bit of a convoluted story as this particular fund source is ver complicated and goes through multiple hands, but basically working with the region we were able to transfer the grant understate rules and not under regional rules. We are still benefitting from the money and mtc is happy to assist us wi our electric vehicle purchase but they are very interested in the advancement of the program which is not only our goals about the theirs and making sure it's funded as well.9:30 AMDo we have a couple years or a deadline to the commitment?9:31 AMWe have some time.Could you give me a rough assort of timing.A couple of years, yes. would like to have internally the funding question resolved within the next six months.Okay, thank you.Council member teresa o'neill: okay, if there are no other comments, is there a motion and second to approve the consent agenda? All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? motion passes. that takes us to our regular agenda which is --[ off mic ]Okay, c'mon. you submitt two cards. Public speaker: good morning, director o'neill for accepting a public comment on this item on the agenda which I submitted a card for. My name is andrew boone, a candidate for san jose city council district 6. I'm glad to see these words appear on the vta do you mean on youragend. I think wow, that sounds really great and i'm going to put that on a bil dollar sales tax. What is thebicycle highway in reality? What that is is a very high quality off street bicycle path network. I believe in germany and denmark and the netherlands where they are implementing this concept is better than what w have with a bicycle off street path and considering ithat and the highways that we build t this agency wants to expand wi more cars. We have more than highway and you have to disconnect and go off it and gon to surface streets to cot it. You can go anyway in this urban area but you can't do t riding on a network.You shoul say that. Don't talk about super bicycle highways until w have a network of path throughout the entire urban area. That's what you should fund as the priority. 7. 1. Information item - receive bart silicon valley operations & maintenance agreement overview. Deputy general manager and chief officer and michael smith, an investment manager will provide information on this item. Than you.9:34 AMMadam chair, before the team delivers their presentation, one of the reasons for this board meeting was to bring this particular item to all of the board members. As you know, we are trying to finalize our operations and maintenance agreement in order for us to start service on the bart, the first bart segment, tend of thisyear. We will not start servic without having a formal agreement for bart starting tt service. One is the briefinformation to be provided to both boards. It is our expectation that once we get comments on what we are proposing today, the status o the items within that document, that we will bring the final document for your approval at the September board meeting. With that, I will ask carol, o has been taking the lead on tsoperations agreement.9:35 AMGood morning, this has been a long process actually working closely with bart while we are trying to deliver the projects moving forward with the agreement. I think a lot of the first pieces of it was to defi the roles and responsibilities of each agency. I do want to mention the teams quickly. She has been working with this for a long time with vick and myself and bernadette is here also in case there are any questions. I want to go over the comprehensive agreement. I'm not going over the entire agreement, but i'm going tocover those sections that we say is superceding with the operations and maintenance agreement. A little bit of background about the comprehensive agreement describes the whole framework on how we are going to work fr fundamental funding to delivery of project and the maintenance and deals with our real estate and access and control. It was executed in 2001, that's almost 18 years since it was established. It was actually through a lot of political pressure by some of the different management agencies to the north and some of the advocacy groups. It was required that the project would get into the regionaltransportation plan. So we needed, both boards needed to adopt this agreement before it could get into the rtp that year. It actually assumed a 7h statement alternate # being built by 2010. This is a basioverview, and vta pays the cos for the extension and we do a the contracts for procurement which is the design and construction of most of the br, we retain ownership of everything that we build primarily from warm springs station south we own. But w have an obligation on the bart core system to pay for some ofthose costs and also responsie for the design element on the project. Bart's responsibility is to provide technical support during this process while we are doing development. They do have some roles while they are having the lead into integrating into the bart system. They do th service planning to manage for the region and we'll get mo detail about where we are on that activity. The operations and maintenance they do as well as they set the fare policy, are able to put the surcharge the fare policy but they set the fare policy similar to what y have currently. These are all the sections of the comprehensive agreement. Section 4 is about the on going cost and capital cost funding and then the operations and maintenance is in chapter 7. And section 8 has a section o property acquisition. The ownership and control which is access and control and some of that section will be in the o & m agreement as well because it has to do with the easement on the property. The general agreement is response for the o & m cost with bart and a stable funding soue that we have because we didn't have it when the agreement was executed. We do now withmeasure b. The other general agreement in the o & m, in the conference agreement in the o & m that the extension would not degrade bart's extension and primarily there would not be an over saturation of funding or activities to the detriment to the core system. That is an issue. We do pay for our c but bart cannot do something that would actually hurt their system and providing service this one area and not in anotr area that might need those. Y will balance those needs. In the comprehensive agreement in 2001, bart agreed that I would operate the extension an operate and maintain the core system and operate and maintain an -- identity system and you would know it's a bart station. If you get into a train, yo will know it's a bart train, even though vta will own those trains, you won't see our vt logo on that. And that upon terevenue service, each party will address the on going issues. When it comes to the cost, the & m cost will be calculated ia way that is determined with an without our extension. Right now a lot of our planningexercise is this is what it cost to run the bart system and t is what we forecast. Once wt into operations, we will be forecasting backyawards as to w it cost and the maintenance cost and we are responsible for aportion of the bart fixed cost as well. If there are examinations performed and higher performancestandards that will determine each cost. There is a little bit more detail about the capital cost. We have the responsibility for any of the cost resulting from capital maintenance or rehab cost for the extension, forridership increases and the proportion of the regulatory changes and technology changes and replacement.The proportion of the responsibility for the course of investment is by the most appropriate measure thatdidn't define those measures I the agreement. We are not responsible for upgrades prior to the revenue service of those facilities of bart that don't meet the latest seismic requirements for bart, that's bart's responsibility and final cost will be in the bart agreement and we will amend t agreement or create a newagreement. The determination of the capital cost is that there is a ten year capital improvement plandeveloped. We don't expect a lot of changes in the first ten years but a major investment with bart's new train control pursuant to the cip, bart will develop an annual investment capital plan which was in thecomprehensive agreement for the extension. The s cip will be done for developing the system and will be using grant funds and to support the capital n and we'll work with bart for multiyear projects as well. Badoes include the schedule since they know their system best a they know when those activitie can occur and they need to maintain the priorities for the core system and our extension. When we talk about the bart e system, at the time, the extension was in operations. O now it is in operations, so ty have roughly a 104 mile system it includes all the equipment and facilities in alameda, contra costa and san francisco and san jose which is where the extension is. For the capital cost we pay a portion of the share and we pay 100% of the capital cost in our extension in the agreement there was a designated source, rob will get into it more on the tda and t cost model and we have updated and they are still using today 20 years later that we require subsidy of $48 million a year for the 16 mile extension for the 12 mile corridor and we would be required to advance that to them from a new or a existing task source or subsidy source to be dedicated to bart prior to January 1, 2009. If we didn't fulfill our obligation, we would have an lien on the tda that was since 2002. They wanted a revenue source by 200 bart collects the revenue on t system. We don't plan to do that for the first phase but something that will be considered for the second phase. The passengers, for every passenger entering or exiting extension entire fare comes ba is credited to vta. It's heldy bart but credited to vta so w are paying the true subsidy. And we have revenue in terms of parking and concessions will be with the most appropriate measure. I'm not going to read through this whole slide but it talks about the o & m and financial records and reserve based over and above the subsidy and aft that reserve, that was defined by a minimum and maximum and after that, if we fulfill our maximum, we will get the excessrevenue and that will return to vta unless vta and bart agreo count for something that might be coming on board such as brd new vehicles as we start a vehicle replacement program. The joint development revenues, are entitled to our joint development revenues generated through the extension and bart is entitled to the revenue from the core system. We are not obligated. The only thing we have to pay from the vta is I bart incurs additional capital expenses for the dot and not part of our cost. And for funding for federal grants and any other funding for private and local and regional and state sources. At the time those can change yearly if we know. There is a periodic assessment, electives went into this but they might not know what will happen and they have reassessment. Either party could look into reassessment for the cost and allocating the cost. Controls for the real estate, bart would be the sole opera in the area and have exclusive control for operation and maintenance of the bart system. For third party agreements, bart will be responsible for any agreements, contracts and purchase because they have that right of use and enter into long-term leases and sell the property rights and with the connection extension as long as it's not needed by bart. This is what's currently in the comprehensive agreement. Now the operations andmaintenance agreement, in the agreement it was probably a matter of le10 pages. Operations and maintenance agreement is about 150 pages, a much mo detailed document. As we got into the agreement, it is over 150 pages. We are not going io the details of the agreement. The consideration of the o & magreement is we have now phased the system and bringing in 1 and now phase 2 and how handle the agreements and we want an o & m longstanding agreement to think about. Under the comprehensive agreement, bart will operate and maintain certain elements. Primarily o & m agreement is to reallydistinguish the bart and vta roles more clearly and how we work together in all areas from advertising to permitting to future funding, to with a records we need and how we d with reporting to agencies that are requiring reports from either one of us. The comprehensive agreement will remain in effect as to all the & m matters. The comprehensive agreement doesn't go away. We are still building and provides free activities of the two agencies. The roles and responsibilities, bart is still responsible for all the way side facilities. One of the vta's issues is we have transit centers and light-rail station. When we got into thetransit center, we didn't know how large those centers would be. We are going to maintain responsibility for the areas and transit center is different with bart because they will be providing for vta and bartcustomers and anybody using that parking. It will be paid basically the same rate as b. Each has full control over its operations and maintenance activities based on their practices. Vta as it uses our practices and bart providing the maintenance system. We will continue to provide all the operations and maintenance for the extension and the core share of the system cost. This gives you a sense of who owns the system. Vta owns everything within the transit center area, except for the roadways. The city owns the roadway both on milpitas boulevard. Operations, and maintenance, bart will maintain anything within thebart system and vta will handle the structures and facilities. And to let you know on a quick note, I will talk about this safety and security, the agencies are working very closely, both the city departments, emergency departments and fire and poli as well as bart and our sheriff's department have all been working closely together over the last 2-3 years. This is actually the areas of responsibility and the slide did not come out well here. So there is no key. But primarily, we would have the bus transit center and the surface parking and the parking structure. Bart would maintain the station buildings and the guide way that comes on and the city would have the responsibility for the south milpitas boulevard. It's similarly for the berryessa station way. Bart has berryea station way and bart has the guidance center and we have theparking and the parking structure. These are section 2-5 that are the meat of the agreement and all the other legal stuff that vick and bernadette can talk about. Just a couple of the key aspects as we work cooperatively with the partners, we want this treated as the bart system and not as something as a separate entity. It's going to be treated for the customers so it's a very seamless user experience for them.We do recognize that brs the funded and has some strings attached to that and how we rehabilitate those.The o & m agreement would supercede the agreements and on maintenance and use of real parties. The parties agree that in an event there is any complicate the agreement of the o & m that this will beresponsible for the agreement. They are in control of their operations and we have our control that will be defined in a series of maps that will be attached in the maintenance agreement. On the conduct of the operation and maintenance, the goal is to have the servic on the industry and what fremont has on warm springs and one l that goes to daily city and through santa clara county. That's our goal. Whatever thatservice is. That also includes what that service will be like on weekends as well which is one of those lines is running and the required transfer. The coordination, bart requires vta to coordinate with the schedules but it's based on h they do their service planning and their fleet distribution. The special events, they willtreat us again as an integral part of the system and working closely with us. In fact, j is leaving and someone else will work very closely. Jay, will work closely with their special events people and we are talking about service planning and for special events for levi stadi. That's already being discussed.9:56 AMA little bit about safety, security and policing. There are a number of jurisdictions involved. Vta, bart and the cities and for emergency response is occurring with meetings with those agencies and similarly with area of control as to responsibilities and if someone needs access to control that they have and we issue and if they have control, bart tas the permit. We take responsibilities for the changes. If something is going on with the transit center, we put the notice and coordinate with bart as well. There is a area designated by each agency so there will be a program manager that is be in rog's division and overall the finance division because a lot of the activity is around funding and programming. Bart has a series of different property rights in this agreement. Some are non-exclusive easement. We did purchase the corridor so there are some incumbents on that railroad corridor before we move forward or construction and so contractual rights given before the o & m agreement with bar it does require coordination between the two agencies. If it's anything anywhere bart maintains as area of control it's given to bart, if it'simmediate condition with bart, we will determine the issues they have. And if there is an responsibility with bart, it will go back to vta. Bart does any required material necessary that would be even with the property that we own, that would be owned by bart as well and including funded by a proportionally. The o & m, it's very similar what we talked about in the comprehensive agreement. We are responsible for all the o & mcosts determined with and without the brt extension. We are going to take a look at tt in a few years as to how thats working out in the o & m cost model that we have. On the cost,; capital cost is simila what we have and responsible share of the core system. Cost for system and brt station and what might support it a and the cost for the scope of the project and what our proportional share is. What w are negotiating now, any bart investment over $100 million where our share is $20 million will be subject to the primaryagreement primarily for the funding plan. Likely it will come in one year and we'll s what those sources and the scope of the project so they understand where those larger dollars are coming from. So we'll come back to the boar with the funding plan that will occur on our extension or from bart where we have aproportional responsibility for. Annually, bart will consult wi vta on extension ten year capital program. We will updat that every year and we use to develop the annual capital investment in terms of finance and where they are going in terms of their capital projects and how our funding sources matchup. We do that with caltrain and what caltrain will be moving forward with our sha as well. They have to work all three agencies to do tha the source of revenues right are 2008 measure b and fares joint grant development funds. We can use other sources from advertising and othera ancillary services that might be coming in.We do a true up in rog will talk about the trust agreement. Both parties agree to look into the adjustment if if there really needs to be an adjustment in the process to more directly replicate to what those costs portions should be. I'm going to turn it to mike smith to talk about the flow of funds.10:02 AMGood morning, to administer the 2008b sales tax, for the funds to receive and disburse monies. The trustee receives those moneys and apply that t the subsidy and residual fund. The fare revenues will becollected by bart and applied t o & m and cost of capital. This diagram shown on the left side where the dollars are coming from the state to the trustee. The trustee will then apply those moneys to the o & msubsidy, which is the primary fund where dollars will flow through to fund our obligations. Subsequently they will draw on the reserves to meet these requirements and any flow of funds will be devised for theseprograms in the future and wil be collected by bart and appli to o & m for capital cost. T fare revenues are applied to o & m cost and brt for fare rs entering santa clara county and with exception that we will notparticipate in the capital cost and operating cost of e-bart d airport connector and not pay revenues that result from trips to those locations. Another item, we will not receive th sfo premium fare. Subsidy fund is used to pay o & m cost. Each fund to the state will deposit the money to the trustee, the trustee will then deposit money into that fund in accordance with the trust agreement. The phase one is $33 million adjusted annually at the sales tax growth rate. And when we have phase th2 available, will be $65 millionsubsidy amount from fiscal year $19 to your expenditure. The reserve fund is available to p for capital cost and shortfalls and operating cost. Each mont the trustee will check to see any moneys are due or anywithdrawals and they will top that up to meet the reserve requirement which is $18 million or 30% of o & m cost. Bart m draw on reserves up to $5 million, above $5 million they would need our concurrence. Onthe initial 5, we would be to review those expenditures a a later time. For any fare revenue shortfalls,there is no concurrence on those dollar limits. They would be able to immediately reimburse themselves on their revenues below the budgeted amount. With the residual fund, any moneys left over after we satisfied the other two obligations, the moneys will be transferred to vta. We have so control of those moneys -- well, down to one time of o & m cost which is $45 million and below that point, expenditures would require concurrence of bart with further expenditure. Currently the balance in that account I around $330 million.10:07 AMBart's current fare box return is 66%. We would be paying 35-45% of the o & m an the capital piece as well.That concludes my presentation.Good morning, just for the development of funds and with the result from the bart meeti last month. This is roughly about $110 million per year. Under the conference of greet, vta agreed to secure funds to secure the operations and maintenance of cost for the extension. Their expectation was that revenue service on the extension would start by 2009 and we k that did not happen. And if w did not have a dedicated sourceof fund sufficient to cover the o & m cost by January 2009, bt had agreed to secure the sub through tda funds. All of thi approved through measure b and funds were not available to withdraw until 2012. The lienwent into effect in 2009 and still in effect. With the dedication of the 2000 measure b funds, the lien on tda will be suspended. There is three conditions on which the lien can go back on slide. If it repealed by the voters or challenged and it's a 30 year measure. Once it sunsets in 20 that is not replaced by another fund that is mutually acceptable. Those are the three reasons the liens will go back but the chance are slim at thi point.10:09 AMThis is the part where people's eyes start to roll. This is the dispute resolution. The good news on disputeresolution is it's pretty much the same as the comprehensive agreement which is that it d everything it can to require dispute resolution to be had among staff before we elevat it. You have a first level of dispute resolution which would be essentially the program manager speaking to each othe the second level, we would in executive managers of operations, the third level we go to the general managers. After that, if the gm couldn agree or to binding and non-binding to their discretion, then finally if things still don't work out, there is alway judicial remedies.10:10 AMLiability and indemnification is where each party is responsible for its own negligence. And the claimshandling procedure is standard. If the party is responsible for a particular claim, again, the claim is received by the othe party, they would tender the defense to the party that should be responsible for it and the will take control of it. If there is a joint claim against both parties where each party might have some liability, the party would work out joint defense activities. Insurance, if anybody has any questions, I will defer that to rog later. It's addressed in e agreement but I don't think we wanting to into here. The final slide is about th proposed o & m agreement termination. The comprehensive agreement had termination that was -- it didn't really contemplate revenue service. It used to be termination five years after revenue service wi a two year window meaning theoretically that either party could terminate with no reason after seven years of revenue service. I don't think either party was happy with that concept. We agreed there would be no termination or convenience after five years and three years period before such terminationnotice would happen and the cost assuming who would bear the responsibility for cost. There is various cure period depending on what's going on and the critical of default. The non-defaulting parties would beable to recover from the parties from the associated cost resulting from a default and determination. The determination after what is usually referred to acts of god, earthquakes riots, flood, that sort of thing.10:13 AMThe last slide gives you t steps for the board's execution. There is a couple areas that are open. In june, july, mostly attorneys will be drafting the agreement and things will come back in July to us for clea or business decisions that are unclear that we need to more clearly discuss. The final editing will be in July and august. We hope to distribute t the end of august for advanced reading and come to the meeting in September with bart and vta board action in october. We change that earlier and we May come to the august meeting if we need to but we want the boar see it twice through the boar and this will be in time foe revenue forecast date which will be in december. That concludes our presentation. We are open to questions.10:14 AMCouncil member teresa o'neill: thank you very much for those comprehensive reports. Director rennie?I have a couple of questions. thank you for the very detailed report. What is missing for me is some comparisons since i'm not an expert. I'm curious does this agreement or i'm really thinking more of thefunding and our future financial liability to all, how does this compare to other counties and other extensions. Let's take for example when they extended bart to dublin and contra costa county. Does contra costa county owning the train around the system, mainly the questio is what is bart's different funding source compared to us?10:15 AMIt's a little bit different because bart was created and covers alameda and san francisco and contra costa.Something in dublin is owned and managed b bart and very similar to the way we would dou do an expansion. Have to guarantee our ability t fund what we are going to buil and fund what they are goingoperate and maintain.So, one of the things th sounds strange to me is we ow some trains that are now running around the rest of their sy. How do we know they are not going to over use our trai do we have to pay for repairing our trains or do they pay for repairing our trains?10:16 AMWe are discussing it. for example, most of the trains are coming in, our fleets that we are purchasing and owning and there is a vehicle use agreement and procurement agreement that we established five years ago, a long time ago. Six or seven years ago, that agreement came to the board before they were going to procure. They will be disbursed throughout the system within our area. They won't use our vehicles. They don't real know. Whoever is doing the service planning, there will be an overhaul. There is no realdistinction. There is a distinction about who pays for ours and there is a proportional share if it's part of thecapital project, sometimes it's part of the operation maintenance. I don't think there is going to be an over use of our vehicles.10:17 AMSince it's a different kind of funding model, are we comfortable that we are kind of paying our fair share doing it this way than the money coming out taxes, I just don't knoThe funding of bart is u similar to the source that we use for vta for our operatin system. They use systems very similar to maintain. We are working through these funding plans. The difference is they have a sales tax or property tax -- they have a property ta and a parcel tax that goes to bart specifically and we just don't have that. We have a sales tax that's going to pay for ours.10:18 AMOkay, maybe one more question, maybe for rog. So o your chart you had a reserve and residual and it was confusing to me. Residual sounded like a reserve and maybe used slightl different. What I wanted tounderstand is you said $300 million and that is in the residual and not in the reserve. What i'm trying to understand is, do we have is this reserve getting worked out over time and then we have to come up withmoney from somewhere else. O expense is going to grow faste than our potential revenue. Is there a danger in 10 years or years where our money is runng out and we have to pull money from another source to keep ts going. I don't see a side by side numbers and I don't get a feel for that. Do you have a feel for that?10:19 AMSure. $18 million to start. we have so far about $335 million which we are holding in 2008 measure b for operating a maintaining bart service. The result of 18 $1/2 for two reasons. One, in case the farerevenues, and the actual fare revenues fall below than what is budgeted, then bart can draw from the reserve to make-up the difference. We get monthly statements so it's pretty transparent. The second of the service if they have a capital need that has not been planne before and instead of waiting for vta to go through all the capital program, if it's an emergency. They can draw up to $5 million from the reservewithout seeking our approval. O course there is a recollect # -- reconcile reconcileation part after that.They do get a pretty high shar of fare box of 65%. So any drawing with respect to the fare box is pretty minimal. With question of that, we have $335 million in measure b. That wl remain with us in our care,control and custody. Going forward, if you look at the diagram on the screen now, all of the 2008 measure b revenues directly go to the trustee from the state department. We collect $35 million through measure b funds right now. Initial o & m expenses are projected to be roughly $45 million per year. And the fare box revenues are expected anywhere from $25-30 million a year. With 2000 measure b and fare box reven we would collect anywhere from $75 million a year and the fare box. That will come to vta. That will stay with us. However, one of the things we agreed to and you brought up a great question. It maybe great now and still building the c through the first few years o service. What happens once fares start to go up and there is mo capital investment required at that point. Those are valid questions. The way we have projected right now between a combination of 2008 measure b revenues sales tax revenues and fare box revenues, phase 1, w will be very comfortable and extra funds, once phase 2 starts, we will have a surcharge for phase 2 as with the connector right now. With the surcharge, we should be okay barring anything unforeseen. We do have a cushion of $330 million right now which we'll keep adding to in the next 8-10 years. As far as we have projected, we don't see any major shortfalls in funding from the two different sources and plus another source for capital which is fta grants. We don't see any shortfalls in the near future or later in the program.10:23 AMThank you.Madam chair, if I could, would like to add to Mr. Rennie's question regarding the vehicles and just to share teven though we contributed to 56 vehicles, bart is replacing the vehicles throughout its entire fleet. There are currently 80 vehicles were delivered in april, another 6 in May with total of 150 vehicles that arecurrently operating in train sets throughout the system. As carolyn indicated, we are looking at this as part of the entire network. It is anticipated that the vehicles that were part of the procurement that we contributed to for our extension will be included throughout the entire system. We won't be able todistinguish them, but bart wh committed to us and they are working their way through the system and creating new train sets at some point throughout the entire year, the bart sysm will be enjoying the fleet ofthe future which is quite ni.10:25 AMMember mcallister?Going to rob's question, d san mateo have a different rate structure than santa clara county?San mateo, a lot of the ter in the comprehensive agreement were based on the relationship that they had with sand transwith how it's funding. Their revenues were not coming in fruition like they thought and transit wanted to start cutting service but it was killing ridership, it was a problem. Most people know inregion as you call it, there s a divorce between sam trans -- and bart and they get revenu source and fares, i'm not su of it all but they are no lr in agreement with sam transand that was based on therelationship they had and they wanted a more stable agreement and funding source. That's why you require a funding source or a lien on the tda.10:26 AMYou mentioned the green or orange line, that goes to sa francisco. You said that was the goal but not a guarantee.Well, the goal right now, they don't want to guarantee anything at all times time because they don't know what will happen with their service. We understand if there is repairs. But for example, on the weekends, they run similar service to, they only run o sundays, they run the line to richmond and you transfer eitherin downtown oakland, that's one of the other ones. We don't know what in the future the service will be like down here. They m run down here, we don't know,f they create a y. There is a of discussions about that. We want to have the same service. We don't want it to stop am springs or just down to berryessa or san jose.10:27 AMWill that start to run nowRight now, yes, the two l that run the a line primarily down south.I know you said we retain ownership of the infrastructure, at any time does it make sense to sell it to them bart?I think that's a policy decision. I don't think so. The vehicle was a discussion one way or another, I don't know if th was as much of a concern excep the agreement that we owned everything. So we owneverything.10:28 AMAgain, I agree. it's a py issue. Again, all the assets that are procured are funding from a tax perspective that we should own the infrastructure because we paid for it.We can always sell it to them. Like san mateo, did you say they took over their assets.For san mateo, bart owned everything. That was funded 80 by federal funds.When you said we had a comprehensive agreement, I noticed a couple things, responsibility of portion offixed cost is not known, the investment by appropriate measures is not known, and there are some other things. So w you say comprehensive, why don't we have it? Will we get tha information?10:29 AMIn the comprehensive agreement there was an appendix or exhibit attached based on the o & m cost model established f the full station extension, th cost was 15% of the fixed c for us what we are seeing fothe berryessa extension is 5%f the cost, a little bit more or less. It changes because it changes proportionally based on the cost drivers. I have seen this model for 30 years and it keeps being updated and reviewed. It's not very complicated, but it's very detailed model.Well, isn't bart complaining that they have a major infrastructure that they have to for their system and will we responsible for contributing to that?So, for the first three yes for rehab, we are not responsible for the projects that they are putting into theircapital program. And then after that, we are responsible for proportional share. That was written into the comprehensive agreement and we are holding that at this point.10:30 AMDo we have any idea exactly what they will accomplish in three years?I can't -- I myself can't state upfront. They do have the large capacity program that they just received funds for and they have a bond measure for that. But we'll continue to take a look. The largest outstandingprogram that they are going to have that is going to affect us is their train control system that is going to be upgraded in the next ten years. That is a very large expense, it's over billion dollars for them. Itincludes the berryessa extension piece for the new control train system. I see that as probably the largest capital cost for coming up.Is that a known or unknown?10:31 AMI would say for our extension, I don't know and I can't tell you for sure. We are getting bids, I would say ab $100 million for the 10 mile.Is there anything in this agreement that if there is so spurs located in santa clara county, would that be addressed at this time?Spurs?When you go down on bart instead of going downtown, there is a spur that goes around 23Oh [ laughter ] that agreement was that it was 16 miles and 7 stations. We had two in downtown and one at diridon and consolidated the station. There was a future station at calaveras, but that was not included in the cost.10:32 AMFrom the time of this agreement since they have been working on it, was there the thought that we May want to p the something if we decide if bart could go in other directions?If I may, madam chair, it didn't take 10 years to get to the o & m agreement. It felt like it but it did not. It k a few years, maybe in the la 3-4 years. But you make a ve legitimate point in that circumstances May change and we May the determine the service going so well that we May wan to extend it. That wouldrequire us to go into a separate agreement and that May become supplemental to this agreement or stand-alone, all depending on whether it's funded by a particular jurisdiction or county depending on what thedetermination is. I don't see why it should not be an opportunity to entertain such a thing. At this point, we are going to just stay with what have because I believe we have gotten so far into this proc that to introduce any nuances o changes will set us back. We e hoping to get the board's concurrence on the operations and management agreement whether we get it no later than octob board meeting so we can be ready when it's time to cut the ribn and start revenue service. Vick, I don't know if you wanted to add?10:33 AMWe would have to include # - amend an agreement and you can still stay with the same fundamental framework with the agreement if everybody is happy with it.There is a term now, but if bart has another extension, that they would create a separate agreement. We could make sure that it also says that if ther is also an extension into our county that it's addressed aswell.10:34 AMIt's a great question and it also changes the revenue allocation and the commitments for funding and liens, etc.The other question I had. n the slide that you have here, I says the last line will be joi concurrence. This is the residual dollar amount will be subject to joint or the balance, what exactly do you mean by joint concurrence?This goes back to the question that Mr. Rennie had. what happens if the funds run out. I don't see it in ourforecast. So, the $330 million that we have, but in the event that balance dips below one times annual operation and maintenance cost, right now I $45 million and about ten years about $65. If it drops belowthat, then any use of the 2008 measure b for any unbudgeted expenditures will have to be jointly approved.10:35 AMThank you.Council member teresa o'neill: okay, there are any other questions at this point? Mayor liccardo?Thank you, I appreciate the extraordinary time that staff has put that this effort. More time that anyone would have preferred, but I really appreciate the patience and for forbearance for doing anything rash. I know there has been a lot that's gone into the negotiations. I just want to ak about a couple points at the3,000 foot level. Going back t slide 7, it seems to me if te is any disputes going forward it's going to be around o & m and the bart o & m cost mode the question and shouldn't be question I have to ask, but be clear, how confident are w in the transparency of bart going into the cost model to clearly distinguish between what is their system wide cost and what is ours?10:36 AMSo, let me explain a littl bit about the cost model and there are some reports on how the methodology for it. It's model that actually looks at every activity that bart does and every person in bart's organization and then actually applies it to sort of the appropriate cost drivers. For example, maintenance of vehicle, the cost driver for them would be fleet vehicles and then th costs are all calculated for that and every year it'scalibrated against the previous year's budget so we know whether it's a close or accurate model it a very complicated model. We have been talking about this for years. It's one of the things are putting into the agreement that we are going to relook at that model and have an independent evaluation. Mostly because it is with or without and the transparency with bart and to the agreement and witho us, no, we think you would done this and going back and forth. And that is a concern o ours. We have done a white paperlooking at what other agencies are doing across the country. E have done that a few years ago and trying to update that as well and looking at the cost models if we are really the percentage or these cost driveand categories based on how ma passengers they carry or miles. We are trying to look at these models.It's trying to look at it more transparent, it's not just the model, but a very lo and arduous and a lot of inpevery year.10:38 AMAt the risk of sounding like a marriage counselor, I don't believe we should go into t believing we can change our partner or what they are doing. If we would assume they kept I the same way, do we have anindependent auditor, some mechanism?10:39 AMYes, it's interesting becae I worked as a model on this before I knew about it because I worked on this project in 1986 when it was coming to santa clara county. The model is there and pretty much the sameone. The people that have moved on actually works for bart now and he knows this system inside out. We have the same consulting company that was working on it 30 years ago and still workin on it today for us and independently reviewing it for us. I will say if I wanted to get rid of it because I prob under more than what is going o that was negotiated and there isn't a push for bart to do that. And that's why we are going to have an independent review of the cost model separate from the assessment which is more than the actual cost calculation than it has to do with this model. We are going back in and looking into thi area.Right now it is a good model to forecast what we t our costs are going to be an then what our actual cost will be. The problem is without sb extension is always going to be speculative.10:40 AMYes, I appreciate the challenge there. With regard to this independent entity, is there something we can draw on an annual basis so if we saw a significant spike from one year to the next to say we would like to spike our ability.10:41 AMWe'll probably continue to have them on board and they ar on with us for the next phase, this firm. If we decide to loo at something different, we will go out jointly and procure someone joint independently to look at the model.This is what we will al governed by?I will let vic. [ laughter ]There is no guarantee that a dispute will be solved one way or another. It's something that they have to work out. There is no final arbitrator at this point.So bart doesn't want it or we don't want it?Bart, they don't want any dispute type of resolution.I'm sure they would like se kind of guarantee as well. For me my only concern about te cost model is this: it's a complicated and a lot of input into it, but the without scenario always can cause disagreement. We might be able to get to a point where it's fine, but I think in the long run both of our agencies are seeing something if we can make it less complicated for our staff and the transparency is really there. I think we both wanting to that way. I don't think it's the issue of wanting to calibrate it and the true cost that will work. I think the real concern is we are creating a scenario that won't exist tt we have to use as a measure.10:42 AMOkay. to shift here, on 36, that bart can draw up million from the reserve without our authorization. And I just want to understand what our remedy is if we dispute the use of those funds, will we be b into that dispute resolution that you outline, vic?10:43 AMYes, that's exactly what would happen. It's a dispute resolution process ultimately that relies on the parties to sit down and do their best avoid litigation. The gm's ca always choose to have a non-binding process. I think litigation is expensive and I think they are on board to ad it if at all possible.On page 34, apparently oakland revenues are excluded. I assume that has to do with e arrangements made with the port of oakland.Are you talking about the sfo or the oakland airport connector?10:44 AMThe connector.The oakland connector and bart, we are responsible for the cost on the system. Now grant it, the fare can go all the w across, we won't be responsible for the cost for the two extensions. That's how it would work.I see.It has a premium fare surcharge worked out with the airport and bart has that and bart will keep that premium fare similar to us as we would collect the surcharge.We don't get the burden the cost. That's great. Finally finally, rog, as you were explaining the runway we have with this $300 plus million in residual, that will have to start running in phase 2 abs a surcharge. Is there a provision in here that states the parties shall agree to a surcharge?10:45 AMWe have discussed this with bart and talked about a surcharge and they have agreed that if need be there will be surcharge.Do we have that in the agreement.I believe we have it in the contract and it's not being changed at this point.I actually worked on this yesterday. The language that's been worked out essentially and I understand from bart's attorneys is that every surcharge has to be independently determined by their board like we can't co our board in advance to do something. We have to determine whether a surcharge is granted or not. Obviously they have an incentive on us to not fail financesl finan# -- financially.10:46 AMAnd we have something in the city that the staff shall recommend. Can we have anything in that staff shall recommend?The problem with saying sta shall recommend saying you are requiring staff to make an independent, we require this it but as staff persons we are required to tell our board w we believe to be correct. If staff is going to recommend something, meaning staff doesn't have any -- what we normally will do is bring it to our bod for consideration. We promise it will get to the board, but y really can't cuff the staff to tell the board what we will d in the future.10:47 AMIt's not cuffing but telling staff, tying something to the mass. This is us telling our future selves that we think it a good idea and I won't if we can get to this point because I think we can get stuck in a b way if they push back on that surcharge.We'll figure out the best way to address this specific concn whether that direct language or some other.Thank you, I appreciate your consideration.Council member teresa o'neill: thank you very much for those questions. Member bruin?I want to follow up on the last question. Does bart of certain criteria or how do t make a determination whether a surcharge is required. I'm trying to determine how much might that battle be if they have no guiding principles?10:48 AMI don't think it's very common with the surcharges. They have a premium and that was an arrangement with going into the airport. They have a slightly higher fare to go through the transit tube and those are thrdecisions by the board. For us my sense is and very similar to -- if we need a surcharge cover financially, I think the board would be, they would do that. They would make the right decision.Okay, and the other thing, n terms of bart starts extending to the tube, we are not on the hook for anything in terms o capital -- or anything like th and if they do build anoth crossing, does that imply if they extend, that our share in operational cost and all woul also start diminishing as things are extending? I'm trying to understand that relationship because I don't understand what that model really is?10:49 AMI think this is one of those things for us to address in t comment to extend that agreement. I think we need to take a look at that because t agreement is very specific f the 95 miles and the sfo extension for the 104 miles. A a separate agreement, we can extend this one. I will have to wait to comment on that.If there is an extension, there would need to be certainly an amendment to an agreement.10:50 AMSay we do any extension within their jurisdiction or outside of the current jurisdiction like something likethe transbay in their jurisdiction and like something outside like santa clara like any jurisdiction would have to be thought through.Right now the language is y extension. If there is any extension and how that is dealt with as part of this agreement, there has to be a separate agreement.I wanted to be clear of the definition of what an extension means. For san mateo, that extension to santa clara county, if that's not clear of what extension means and anything inside those counties.10:51 AMThe language is just extension. So I don't think there is a limitation saying just in the bart district oranything like that. If it were to go to san mateo county for some reason outside of their jurisdiction, it's covered, it should be.And if they want to do another transbay tube.I don't know that you consider that an extension.That's why I was trying to figure out as a definition of extension.An extension in terms of colloquial terms.When we use the term 'extension' it means that the end of the line, we are extending. There is also whatwas brought up earlier regarding a spur, that is an attachment somewhere between the beginning and the end of a line. But the second crossing is a connection that's going to be a connection to an existing system.So I not sure if that's qualified as an extension. Bottom line, I don't think we have an answer to your question. We would have to go back and if there is a need to add in the glossary what extension is to us, that's something we need to think of10:52 AMWe've got a great team over there, but that we've looked at all of these hypothetical things we talked about in the future that May or not affect us and what we do want to affect us not affect us on the dollarside.Council member teresa o'neill: great questions from everybody. I do not see any other lights. We'll go topublic comment. Please come forward. Public speaker: good morning, once again, board members,eugene, just to understand this agreement between vta and bart particularly on the lien on the state transit system to run o buses and light rail trains, with the voter approved 2008 measure b to cover the lien was discussed. That would be m first question. That the lien is off for the time being is wh understand.10:53 AMMr. Bradley, as was explained, that lien will be suspending once the board adopts and operates the maintenance agreement before them for review today because we have a 2008 measure b that is collecting 1 eighth cents, and if we missed what was in the comprehensive agreement, but what wasestablished this morning and once approved by the board in October of this year, the lie is suspended.10:54 AMRight, my other question what happens if the funding comes up short because of the recession which is bound to do with every sales tax measure that voters have approved with that cycle. Would the same appto bart as well?We have the contractual obligations to pay for this.Thank you.Thank you. roland? public speaker: with the parking, if you do not open up similar one, you are openingyourself to this. You need t address that. My suggestion is, I like the way it's working, basically you have to go to the gate before you pay for the parking, end of discussion. If you want to do it different, okay, if people if they don' want to use their clipper ca fine, but people are going to be switching and basically going to park there but basically use va public buses, I would suggest giving them a credit as long as they use clipper. The fare box recovery ratio, this is an extremely dangerous ground. They have that in thebudget. Fy 2053, the fair box recovery. Now, the capital of business that after three years that you are going to be participating with the capital, that is a disaster. I guarantee it. Please don't go anywhere nearit. The train b 2 is a time bomb. Remember, this is made o steel. Think about that. The amount of liability is 70 yea. Think about that. It's not just in terms of capital that is revenue. All the revenue goes down the tube and it's coming from our crossing the tube. In terms of us being able to have -- how many people have ridden this? nobody. If you rode bart -- there is a tra station and by the way, it happens to be diesel.That's a good point if you want to be have a complete -- it's exact same thing between warm springs and milpitas. You put a transfer station there. The capital cost is very simple. Y just need another way. It's very expensive but you can complete that and you can do anything in the bart system.10:57 AMThank you. Mr. Bateman? public speaker: hi, this was my first time trying to learn to understand this process. It was very interesting. Thank you for all the questions and the species on the subject. To try to form my own ideas feelings in how to talk about this, I hope you can be patien i'm interested how both sanmateo county and santa clara county, how they are helping to pay for working with bart, and that was surprising to me. They have their own funding sources, santa clara county is using measure b and that sounds lik an important concept how bart can work easier as well. I don't want to so much critici that idea.If that works, I seems to be an interesting partnership. I'm curious if in the future if things aren'tconnecting with the different funding sources and different agencies, you have prepared yourself to mitigate and talk through the problems and changing ways and I just wante to remind everybody that I hoyou have safe guards and back ups ready to deal with the funding coming from two different areas. Other than, good luck on your work. This is informative. Thank you.10:59 AMThank you very much. since this was an information item, we don't need a motion. We move to consent.Now we are going item 8. 8. 1. General manager report. (verbal report) . Update on faster bay area11:00 AMThank you, madam chair. s is here is here if you have any questions.A few people wanted to comment on the faster bay area. Scott is here for any questions that you May have. Public speaker: i'm a resident. I wasn't sure I was going to able to stay long on this. B I wanted to bring something to your attention. Obviously i'm for buses, but the idea that buses are for the poor anddesperate and people that are more well-off, I hope that y can change this through funding increases and by providing seamless transfers. And vta and bart, I use them altogether. See the bart train leave aswalking from the bus to the platform. I hope we can do something about that and maket easier for people to use these agencies together. Think about that.11:01 AMThank you, monica.Andrew?Good morning, directors, my name is andrew boone, a candidate for council district 6. I am strongly opposed to t tax proposal. This is a $1 billion tax proposal, a lot of it basically this is a problem conceived by the same business group silicon valley bay area council. 20 or 30% of this measure could go into project that expands the capacities of highways that carry motorized traffic. That's a road we've been on for a long time, just another change, it will relieve that bottleneck, quality of life. That's been proven to fail all over the world. Yet again, in the very first public meeting about this, $100 billion sales tax increase proposal that $20 billion mostly going into highway expansion. Things that connect to the highway 101 areautomatically now called transformative. They are not transformative, they aren trenc trenchative, they are making us depend on cars as if that is te absolutely priority and that is the opposite. We need to m walking and bicycling safe. F all these reasons I founded a group to oppose this measure, make sure this never goes to the ballot unless the measure is changed to not expand highways and not be a sales tax. Ourwebsite is no mega tax. Org. Please check it out. Thank y11:03 AMThank you.Hi, thank you. the woman w spoke a few persons back. I have the same complaint about the 181, and it always takes off right as I arrive on the bar and I understand the reasoning you have to a person to wait an extra 20 minutes to gather themselves in speed and would be a slow process but maybe ther is a way for that to get adjusted in the future. To speak to what the previous speaker, Mr. Boone was talking about assuming about the funding today. He's taught me an important lesson about prioritizing and what'simportant and how to prioritiz and, you know, I under that th highway system has been kind o, it's an important revenue source for yourselves at the vta, a i'm at a loss. I'm in betwee that I respect that of your, but at the same time, what Mr. Boone is saying to me, you kn the future of the highway and the cars is not sustainable an we have to consider the thing as the automobile as an all anymore. And it's an important first step for all of us in jose to have that in our minds and we are hoping to look fo you for that leadership and exactly how to go about that. So, how you will prioritize these questions about, you know,highways versus the needs of a public transit. I hope we can all work on together. I need work on it. I hope you guys c too. Thank you.11:06 AMThank you,. you public speaker: this amount spent for a highway extension, I get to see this from theagencies about highways. Just a few years ago, the mercury news published a report that after $1. 2 billion to add lanes on highway 101, they are just a congested as ever. If that is not proof that highway expansn do not work. What will be? Will this be 405 in los angeles or $1 million spent and it's still the same grid lock. That money needs to go toward bus d rails and walking and biking fr everybody. Too often I see from staff and other politicians here and especially buses are all fr those who don't have a car. This alone is a limiting belief th limits our ability to really free ourselves from traffic that is basically destroying siliconvalley. It's pastime, this valley needs to be more of a trend setter than a trend copier or trend follower. If you are going to have a mega bond in the valley area, at least for a solution that works, public transit.Please, do the right thing, get with the trend, go transit. You won't go wrong. Thank you.11:07 AMThank you. keith may. Public speaker: hello. Good morning all. I wanted to brin up things about vta. A publi transit system is not a for profit system. It's a utility meant to move large groups o people around.The idea that it's there to turn a profit is ignorant and foolish. Uber and lyft is a for profit service. Have ridden it at the wea hours of the morning and works great. Nonetheless, there is international news outlet about the motel 22. The shame of ts is the 22 is the only 24 ho line in the county. The excuse for this late night transit is only one part of the series of the failures of the public pa. If they ran later, more peopwould use them. If you buil they will come. Improving access will bring riders. There needs to be a sense of pride over profit when it comes to notions about public transit and other public facilities and publicthings as well. It's not to tn profit. It's for the bri pride o our area. The need for mass transit is needed more than ever. It's clear that the needs of services for fire and plea are needed. Now you want to g on a bus with me and make transit or maybe then, the vt transit system will not cut it's threat to its budget where public services is the way to get people around. The innovation to get people to san jose is a more professional way. I'm curious as to which demographic is benefitting from this.11:10 AMThank you very much for your comment.So, I guess we don't hav direct questions for scott. So that takes us to item 7.Were you going to do a presentation?We are running late on time for that.You said you have a partial list. When will you have a full list on these items?We are looking for the measure b category. We are looking at the outreach and will continue to look at thecoalition as they request more information from us to define what it will look like and we'll work closely with the board to devise what that will look lik11:11 AMCan you tell us what's the timeframe and the urgency to this?Because this is being done by the coalition and not the vta. I'm hoping it will be in time for the fall of 2020 election which is a good time to put these measures on the ballot. As a result, that's why they have a bit of a quicker timeframe to put this together because once they do the outreach, they need to go to t state legislature to get approval to have that done. They need to do that by the end o this year or early next year t have it ready to be done for 2020 which we believe it is the ideal time today. This is not led by vta but the coalitio11:12 AMThe coalition is led by whBy the coalition and other local leaders.Who are the local leaders?The businesses and non-profits. They would be the main ones.When we went for the ballot we didn't have to do anything n until June for the November ballot. Are you saying it's going to go through the judicial bodies to go through their conferences, how does that work?Sure, currently, to my understanding there is no mechanism, this would be a countywide measure. To myunderstanding, there is no legislative vehicle so we have to go through the legislative measure to go forward with tha11:13 AMIsn't it similar to the las one?Yes.What has me disturbed that the public that see's anytim mention things like the 101 corridor that equals the 101, the highway, the freeway. Everyone is translating this to road expansion, more cars. So as we are looking at this, this is just a shorthand here on potential projects and such. To me, i'm hoping that our posiis really trying to look at more what I would call transit super highways. Those transit super highways May parallel on 101 super highway. What I hope is that we are trying to do to sustainability and bicycles andwalkablity. Are we trying to really move towards transit super highways, is that what we see as our projects and how d we start shifting back so th public understand that vta is not about this road expansion.11:14 AMNo, absolutely, as a matter of fact, I think it was mentioned previously by scott. This is really a first cut ofhow we would envision our projects being collected in the rest of the projects. The reason we point to the highway corridors is it gives it a pt of location that is familiar with everyone in the county. If we had just called that the north corridor, people would want us to amplify what does north mean and what sit adjacent to. We are using the highway numerical designation to provide a context. The project of thidesignation is to provide bus lanes and high occupancy vehicles and caltrain capacity enhancements, etc.That's the reason for using that. It's going to change. The coalition is going to come up with itsdesignation. But we thought for the purpose of having a conversation with the other general managers it was easier to put this in the context of corridors that were familiar.11:16 AMI'm sorry. I have one more question. This $300 million annually in terms of equity an operations program, are the dollar values according to these categories what vta is appropriation. And when we say $300 million is this $300 million going across the bay area. I'm trying to understand these numbers with vta and the bay area and the county.I was trying to accelerate these board meetings to not he scott give this presentation but now we are having to give the detail of this presentation so you are not confused. Every single general manager wasasked to identify projects and we are working with our tax representatives. The number that's on there for every si one of the categories before you is for santa clara county projects.11:17 AMThank you.Okay. mayor, did you wisho make a comment? Okay, mayor liccardo.Thank you, and I appreciate the list and I know that not every project will get on the list and I know there is conversation about high-speed rail but it is under construction and will connect and to points north, andcertainly the funding is there to make that happen. And that rail line only makes sense if it gets to siliconvalley. I don't see anything in here especially for valley to valley connection. I suspect if we are going to successfully advocate based on the conversations that I have had in the governor and legislature and the rail authority, they would expect there would be some commitment from this regional measure. I'm wondering if that's likely to emerge?11:18 AMWe expect there will be a expectation through high-speed rail that will be included in our list. We are listingprojects in our county. If are speaking to projects within our county that will refer to high speed, we haven't gotten there.We are looking at 152 asl and looking to include it in that.That will be great. we certainly can take a look at t particular path and the cost, but we'll definitely needfunding for that corridor and we would appreciate if it was included. Thank you.11:19 AMMr. Mcallister?Okay. since we brought I now. I'm concerned about how this is all coming together. I know in transfer for r 3 the transparency for many cities was not well and the in put the was not solicited and I feel this is going to happen. How do we g to them to say we need more transparency a little bit more time to figure these out and r the board to have a full opportunity to discuss the projects moving forward and again, back to transparency and this tie in for rush, rush, rush, it doesn't over weigh t right to really understand what it is doing.11:20 AMWe agree with you. we are hoping to bring this to the board. We are hoping to see the list and we've had a discussio with the members and we are seeking their input. We have not received responses from all of them. The process is going be what the process is because we are not in control of it. Furthermore, this coalition is currently in the drivers seat, but once it goes to the ba coalition for caucus, they will be making decisions as well and they will have to entertain it for putting it on the docket at the assembly level. For reaching back, we want to make sure we are collective, but it's goin to be different than the silic valley.There is not going to be a lot of time available to do the outreach. There will be outreach. The coalition hashired a consultant, one that worked with us, eileen goodwin, who worked throughout the region. So a lot of the processes that we have in place for silicon valley which she is a part of will be extended throughout the region to ensure full inclusion, but I cannot at this point guarantee that there will be a lot of touch points incoming back. This is a first. We'll try to every opportunit that we have through the standing committee andadvisories to continue providing updates to this process. Fe free to provide any feedback that you feel will improve this process and improve the list we are moving through it.11:21 AMWill this coalition make t final determination on project not the transportation agencies?11:22 AMTo my knowledge the final will be made by the legislation itself to allow it to be put o the ballot.Okay, thank you.Council member teresa o'neill: okay, I don't see anymore comments. Thank you, scott. That will take me to my chairperson's report. On Tuesday the grand jury released a report into the operation and governance of the vta. I appreciate the effort of what they found in the report and resource and allocation they have entrusted to us. Over the years, the board has formed ad hoc committees to discuss challenges and the information has been implemented. We are to respond within 90 days, from that, I ask the ad hoc boardcarefully review the grand jury report and work with staff t develop responses to the information outlined in the report. The draft response will be at the audited next regular meeting. The next regular boardmeeting is august 1, 2019. The meeting will be held in the auditorium at vta facilities. That concludes my report. We have one speaker.11:24 AMPublic speaker: hi, thank you, I hope I can speak to an if issues in the past with vta. I have tried to thank vta a few times that by 2014 and 2015, the vta realize they are becoming a victi victim. Spending more money o gasoline. And they started to clean up this problem. I t it taught the vta an importantresponsibility. The vta faces important questions at this time and how to respect the future. The vta lectures of the autonomous vehicles last April taught myself as individuals and as a community, we can beproactive and to actively look for ways for our future econoc process can actually be retained and how we can be more safe responsible economic future. And a reminder that the frag boom started in this country Iearly 2010 was only meant f limited 15 year run at most before a serious review would be needed as to the long-term responsibility for future fuel and for future questions in the first place. Just a few more sentences. I think we are all trying to guess these questions here in this public process at this time. It is hopeful what we are all working on at this time here at the vta in santa clara county. I thank everyone for working on this issue.11:25 AMOkay, item 8.3. any items f concern for referral to the administration. Seeing none. 8. 4 announcements?Item 9. 1, closed session. We have a speaker on item 9. 1. I anyone else wishes to speak, please come forward. Public speaker: thank you. The comments I made during genera public comment is a segue towhat I want to say. If you g the capitol last fall and look at how much we spent. Basically it shows you a break down of we spent measure a. 84% to bt and the process and the light rail got a $350 million. Now ware looking at the situation with our employees. They are good people. They are not consultants that show up at meetings and do e-mail and clk $200 an hour plus the percent, don't know whether that vta withcaltrain. These are good honest people. I rely on them to mov around in silicon valley. Th are professional and more professional people I have come across other transit agencies I the bay area. And they deservour support. They are in th tough situation right now. They can no longer afford to live here because the cost-of-living is out of control and we are t paying them a decent wage. So, my advice to you, discu this among yourselves and plea come to the right thing. Goin back to measure a, when I suppose i'm going there. When I challenged the council, robert, about transferring all of this money from caltrain to light rail, he told me the measure sufficiently vague for us to get away with it. People will not sue us. Please remember that.