November 4, 2021 santa clara valley transportation authority board of directors5:36 PMPlease stand by...> chair, you have a quorum. staff is requesting item -- financial report, as the first item on our regular agenda. Are there any other changes from my colleagues? I'm not seeing any hands. Moved by liccardo, second -- i'm not seeing any other comments by my colleagues.5:37 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] thank you. Motion passed. Thank you. Next is item 2. Awards and commendation. We don't have n award or commendation at this time. But i'm really excited about this because I would like torecognize one of our very own bus drivers. It's the fact that he is observant. It must have been his fighting senses were going on that told him he needed to react. This past summer. , and is hendry with us?5:38 PMYes, chair. we will start by a quick moment.Okay, i'm going to keep going. Thanks. I think this is really nice. This past summer, henry noticed a man sitting at the bus stop and because henry was very observant. He noticed a man needed medical attention.It must have told him to react. -- henry, i'm glad to see your face. This man seemed very disoriented. It appeared this man needed medical attention and he needed help. It turns out this man is from belmont and had been missing for several days. Thanks to henry, he was able to assist him. Thank you, henry for being with us tonight. On behalf of the board, I want to say thank you and applaud you for the efforts on what you did and helped another human being. Thank you for going above your duty. Thank you for making us proud. I'm sure you are very proud, i'm sure your family is very proud of you and we are just grateful for you to be part of the family. I normally don't do this, but do any of my colleagues want to addto anything I just said here?5:42 PMHey, henry. thank you.[lost connection] thanks for what you did.5:43 PMI'm just doing my job. I was there at the time. I'm an older man. I have sympathy for people. There was a lady. I thought that could be my mother or grandmother. I called asmecc and they turned around and told me drive back to where you came from. I drove back 5 miles down. The lady recognized her apartment. I dropped her off in front of her apartment.Chair hendricks:Next speaker, please. public speaker: yes, my name is scott mayes. I live in downtown san jose. Yesterday I had the opportunity to drive to take bart. I was somewhat dismayed to discover that the parkingmachines at the surface lots were only taking cash. They were not taking credit cards, and I had $2 in exact change and it requires exact change. I needed 3 and I had to move my car to the garage where it was accepted. I would ask that you please more patrons of your parking lot if all of your parking machines --5:44 PMThank you. I think you spoke at our next public comment. So you will not be able to speak at our next public comment.5:45 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please. public speaker: blair. Thanks a lot for the work on the bus driver on this item. Thank you.Chair hendricks: thank you very much.Thank you. I appreciate it.Next, I am moving to item 3, public comment. It's reserved to persons who desire to address he board onany item within the board's jurisdiction and speakers are limited to 1 minute. We are not taking any action on board comments here. Now we are going to our public comment section. Do we have any public speakers?5:46 PMYes, chair, we have two public speakers. Roland ollowed by blair. Public speaker: hello. Moving forward, when you go to the agenda with the zoom link, you put it right below it. There is no questions. My echo is what I just said. I'm hereby warning all board members to carefully check on the campaign contributions when you vote on items later on the agenda and the consent calendar.5:47 PMClerk: thank you, roland. our last speaker, blair. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, he new vaccine rogram starting for 5 years old. Good luck on that process to go well and can be explained well. I think this is a time on how to better explain the vaccine process and the lifestyle that we can expect from it. Open public policy ideas to technology to be a real mutual space for dialogue to help facilitate for conversations this fall and into our winter. Good luck with continued -- it's pretty bad in england.5:48 PMChair hendricks.. that was the last of our public speakers. I will close the public speaker section. We are going to item 5. Committee reports. I will take public comment fter all the items on section 5 are complete.5. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (swaminathan)5:49 PMGood evening, chair. the committee met as a ommittee as a whole since we don't have a quorum. We heard a thorough presentation on the program ending June 30, 2021. Which is item 6. 11 on your agenda tonight. We received an update on the project status and any issues and we look forward to beginning our independent audit work in the near future. I reported last month on the continuing application and we are fortunate to identify two well qualified fellow citizens prior to the meeting. The governance and audit committee nominated two members to the citizen advisory committee. Through the chair we acceptcommittee applications on a continuum basis. This is due to many of our members turning out. Application -- apply our next regular meeting is Wednesday via videoconference. Any questions?5:51 PMI'm not seeing any hands. thank you to you and your team and i'm glad you got the appointments and hopefully that will get you back to quorum and full strengths.Thank you.Next we are going to item (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore)Thank you, chair hendricks. on Thursday October 14th, the pac received a presentation on the transient oriented development program and received feedback concerning land development and transit planningpriorities in america to other countries where priority is placed on locating commercial uses near transit hubs and impacts on ridership and fare box recovery and first and last mile transportation needs serving denser development at these hubs and engagement for development proposals. The tod recommended the guidance policy be updated in the uture for considerations of jobs and balances in the county and impacts to air quality. We next reviewed and provided feedback on bicycle and parking proposal guidelines and whether they were intended as requirements and city developers and as they analyzed land use proposals and non-binding. Finally, we recommended the following items on the board of directors agenda this evening. The $64 million in transit and state funds for this project, the regrant of $4. 6 million in bay area grant project funds for san jose and mountain view. The program for this year, 2021/22 program manager funds and the annual report and the valley transportation plan semi annual report for the period ending June 2021. The fiscal year 2021 transit operations report. The next meeting is scheduled for FridayNovember 12, 2021 at 4:00 p. M. Due to veterans day and will be conducted as a zoom teleconference.Thank you.5:53 PMChair hendricks: thanks very much four your # -- for your report. It looks like member paul has a question.Thank you. I have a question about your transient oriented development and my question is around he issue for ousing for the housed at any of these tod sites respectively?5:54 PMNot to my recollection. but you do have an opportunity tonight with item 6. 7 to discuss that and also bring back to tod what sorts of housing you would like to have with these locations. But if you kindly return this project back to us to discuss the policy, I think that would be a pretty worthwhile endeavor, not just with jobs to housing but from that prspective.That was going to be my next question whether it was going to come back relative to that particular question.Chair hendricks: thanks for what you and 2 pac are doing. I am moving to chairpersons' report. (verbalreport) they are on the online agenda packet. There are no reports for chairpersons' report. (no report)now we'll go to public speaker. Public speaker: roland?5:55 PMThank you for your report and when you took it down, you also took down my comment 6. 5. Someone should look at the matter. Much appreciated. Thank you.5:56 PMI'm sure the board secretary will take look at that.Next speaker, please.Clerk: blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair. Just a friendly reminder on one of these committee agenda items. The ideas of mixed income housing can be an incrediblyimportant tool for ourselves. It's incredibly flexible in its options that it can offer. I understand it is critical in planning for it. I think we understand on how to work with it on a small scale, but with mtc passing the 2050 plan, I hope this can be a start to consider the goods flexibility and purpose that mixed housingincome ideas can offer for these choices and it can help focus housing and bring that to moderate and low-income housing.5:57 PMChair hendricks: that was all of our public speakers. Are there any comments from my colleagues? i'm not seeing any. So I will move on. We'll go to administration and finance (a&f) send 6. 1 through 6. 14. 6. 1 motion needs to be approved with two-thirds vote of the board or at least eight board members. Any members who would like to address the board on consent items, please raise your hands. To my colleagues, are there any questions?5:58 PMYes, after hearing the questions to the pac, I would like to pull 6. 6 as well as 6. 7.Okay.Mr. Simitian?I would like to abstain from 6. 4 and 6. 5.5:59 PMOkay. i'm sure the secretary noted that. Let me go to public comments and then we'll take a motion.Che get to public comment, I would like to note that we did receive public comment from roland in regards to item 6. 5. We have two public speakers. Blair followed by roland. Public speaker: hi.Blair, which item are you speaking on?It's got many items about building bicycle pathways and the like. I don't know if that's the transportation planning but one of the 6 point items and that you are talking about bicycle pathways and the ideas of sustainability for our future and this is how we survive with these plans. This is another policy that is another important tool for the future of our sustainability. Thank you.6:00 PMThank you, blair.Next speaker, please. roland? Public speaker: hi. This is about the early disaster about -- i'm oing to quickly go through it. Hntb where the people did the study back in 2016. They should never have been awarded the contract in 2017 and then who put together the funding plan which is a complete disaster.That was another -- the way they did it. Is by hiring the person to come to do this. Again, this is irregular.But the worse issue we now have is with the packages by the same firm which is how can the station contract be possibly 3 separate from the contracts when the whole station inside the tunnel. Thank you.Last public speaker is adena. Public speaker: hello, with the silicon valley project, as this moves forward, there will be a time to rethink how this project is done, and maybe refraining from expenditures incrementally in this effort to look at the project to get the cost down in order to deliver as swiftly aspossible but in a way that santa clara county can afford.6:03 PMChair hendricks: thank you. i'm going to ask for a vote. I'm ready for a motion, pulling 6. 6 and 6. 7.Member chavez?Thank you. i'm going to recuse myself from 6. 6, 6. 7, and 6. 5.Member liccardo?I would like to recuse myself from 6. 6, 6. 7 and 6. 5 and the micro grid.Was it member paul that made the motion? Are you willing to add 6. 1 to your motion?6:04 PMI'm willing to amend my motion to pull 6. 1 for discussion.Okay. i'm moving down the line of hands. It looks like i'm down to member montano.I second that motion.We have a motion for consent calendar except for 6. 1, 6. 6 and 6. 7. If someone want to comment, please speak up.6:05 PMMember simitian is abstaining from 6. 4, and 6. 5, and member liccardo, 6. 2 and 6. 5; [roll call][roll call] simitian, yes with the exception of 6. 4, 6. 5 abstention.Clerk: [roll call] motion passed. Thank you.Chair hendricks: we'll take care of items in numerical order. We are at 6. 1. Member liccardo, you pulled this?6:06 PMThank you. just two very quick questions. One was just with regard to, these micro grid projects are very difficult to finance, and there seems to be economies of scale and i'm wondering if vta staff is open to conversations with the city or the private sector artners who would like to expand energy storage at thatsite and be able to share in the cost and benefit of that, or 124 project too far beyond than would be precluded and wouldn't be scaleable.Staff?I'm not sure debra or scott are online on his one. This is a grant we went through with partnering for others to be able to receive this grant. I just want to make sure. I'm not sure in this case what the actualrestrictions are in the dollar amounts. I am interested very much so in the ability to expand our micro grid storage and others. We can get back to you on that item. I'm not sure if that has anything to do if the vote would be on this, but I will say that we can continue that. Scott or debra?6:07 PMIf they can just reach out to me, that would be great.This is scott, I can reach out to you.Great, thanks, scott. we have other central facilities there and for this opportunity. Thank you very much for that information.6:08 PMThank you.Okay. member simitian, did you have your hand up?No, Mr. Chair. I do not.Okay. i'm trying not to miss anybody. I'm going to assume it's down. We need to hear public commentfirst. Are there any other comments from my colleagues before I go public comment? I'm not seeing any.Can we go to the public speakers, please.6:09 PMClerk: yes, chair. we have one public speaker, blair. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I think he's been doing this and it's a great idea. It gives itself a hedge and works towards betterpractices in case there is any sort of, I don't know, I don't want to say it, but the natural disasters we have to consider. It brings us out of that time easier and brings us to our better ideals easier if we start working on things now. Thank you very much for working n this item. Thank you.Chair hendricks.. thank you, I think that was the last of our public speakers.6:10 PMClerk: we have one more. roland will be our final speaker. You May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: yes, f you can announce the item before going to public comment just for clarification. I wasn't quite sure. I think I knew what item it was but I wasn't quite sure. Thanks.Chair hendricks: I will try to be more explicit about that. I'm going to end public comments on item 6. 1.May I have a motion from one of my colleagues on this?So move.Second, liccardo. seeing no other comments or questions. Can we please vote.6:11 PMClerk: [roll call] chavez?I'm recusing from this vote.Okay. sorry.[roll call]Thank you very much. motion passed. Thank you.Chair hendricks: now we are moving onto item 6. 6 and 6. 7. Member paul, you pulled this and I kind of got it the way it was framed, can we pull items 6. 6 and 6. 7 together?6:12 PMSure.I'm going to pass the ball on you. What would you like on 6. 6 and 6. 7?Yes, i'm just typing a proposal for this. For the record, member legal # -- lee pulled this.After hearing the discussion between the chair and also with member paul, I also know that on pac they were anting to weigh in on how vacant sites for vta was going to utilize and that was something they kept trying to get sooner so that they can could weigh in on issues like this. I think that also with this before us, they wanted to also weigh in on tod policies. So I would like to request that this item 6. 6 and 6. 7 becontinued and go back to path and have it come back to the board. Also, it's a missed opportunity if we don't put the funds to further look at options to provide housing for our unhoused community. I know thatwe have been striving to do something by 2025. In order at another time that, we need to really use discretion on how we want to utilize these properties. That was why I pulled it.6:14 PMI see that ron goldman, director of property has raised his hand. Ron, I think I would be interested in hearing your thoughts. Part of my question in your response is what would be from a consuming and timing perspective because these are issued rfo's and can we still not delay this and still get the input and/or would it be better for the pac to have a policy discussion about tod in general. What were your thoughts and responses to member lee eg's questions?6:15 PMThank you. this also went to the manager of the county. This also involves the measure a funds and this is what vta and the county have for use of measure a funds. Of the two sites, brand is a small site and with respect to supportive housing, the counter site, the mou that vta has with the county is explicitly envisioning substantial amounts of supportive housing and that is actually the cost for the project that we are seeking to advance. With respect to the timing, staff continues to be very concerned about the timing of the available ind of discretionary measure a funding. Jessie can go into more detail but we recently ad a meeting with the county on supportive housing and this makes several assumptions about the boardapproval for the developer. We'll just make round 10 of the county funding process and that round 10, that there will be more projects for the available funding. So we are very concerned that we are basically up against the limit to get to that last spending round and we won't have any measure a funding and we'll loss the access to this program that is favoring supportive housing. I think from a staff's perspective, what wewould prefer to suggest is that if we can proceed with these items, we are happy to come back to this committee. We are going to be issuing an rfo and will impact our desire to do this supportive housing and prior to the proposal come back to the board to inform you of our valuation of the proposal.6:17 PMChair hendricks: I see member paul's hands, but would you like to say something?Yes, I would like to hear from member paul, but that means the decision is made and we won't be able to make any changes or provide input. But I would like to hear what member paul has to say as well.Member paul?Thank you very much. I have a question for ron. Is round 10 the final round?What they told us is that after round 10 there will be no more available funds at the county.6:18 PMWhy can't those funds be set aside for the time being?I'm sorry, I don't mean to cut you off, please go ahead.Member chavez: ou mean the measure a funds?Well, in this case, for the housed community as well as services be set aside for use in the future. I guess a secondary question to that is the policy advisory committee meets every month, why is it so critical right now that e can't have a visitation on the pac on this issue and bring it back to us in the ollowing meeting?You know, if I might just add with respect to the mou, he measure a funds are competitive. The nature of the agreement with the mou that we have with the county is that they are setting this up, but the actual 3commitment of funds does not occur until after the vta board selects a developer and there is a selection from the proposal and we are ready for the agreement. What you eed to hear is from the board of supervisors to change the fund. Our ou is we have to fund the developer and the vta project which it I also want to clarify in terms of process. This step before the board tonight is to issue the offers before the county to choose before the housing developers and that would be guided to give us and this will come to the board to approve the developer and then the board will be approved the valuation and proposals for consideration and the board approving this and subsequent after that to approve the specific proposeddevelopment project. That series of steps is what creates the timing for us relative to the upcoming round in 2022. There is a couple other steps the board will have before this project is ready for the county.6:20 PMWhen it comes back to us a second time, when do we anticipate that to happen?Based on ur being able to get authorization tonight to end the rfp, we are hopeful we can come to the March meeting with that action item.Okay, so basically, if this gets pushed back a month, that timetable gets pushed back a month.Either in April or May and e still have to reach n agreement on the terms with what the project would be with the owner and get the voting approval for the county's funding for it.6:21 PMI see. how much funding are we talking about?We are seeing a range of $200,000 per unit. This is funding that makes this project feasible. Without this funding, it will be much challenging and will take much longer time to be able to build affordable housingat these sites.I see. okay. essentially it will be with regard to concern about the timing, that is something the board ofsupervisors could potentially remedy or if they are running against a potential deadline, it could be a matter of just having a bit more expediency before we can get some advice with regard to this particular item which is trying to optimize supportive housing and services for the housed population. So, I think i'm understanding what you are saying. Can you remind us 3 approximately how many units you are talking about particularly at the capital station and brandon station?6:22 PMI think at the capital station, we are looking at one site and this is also based on what is fundable and theaffordable housing developers want to do but we are looking at approximately 150 units at capital.Brandon is a smaller site based on the general plan were more in the range of 50 some units there. We were envisioning going for the affordable home oh -- owner ship for the brandon site.Talking about this brandon site you are talking about a cap of maybe $4 million for funding?I hate doing the math off the top of my head right now. But it's key to do it as soon as possible.6:23 PMI certainly don't want to compromise the ability to obtain this funding. At the same time, I think it is a really good idea to look at this particular problem if it's the most probe that we have including cupertinoand with vta going forward and considering these very important questions for how we provide these facilities and services, it can serve as an excellent exemplar and work with the parties to be able to work with these jurisdictions. Mr. Chair, if I May propose something before the table.6:24 PMWe have other speakers.Sure. before I would share the language of it. I would refer a policy based issue of the viability and feasibility of optimizing supportive housing services for the unhoused community at the capital station and brandon station and transient oriented development to the pac and hold it until they have had the opportunity to review this policy issue. I would be happy to bring forward a motion where we can bring forward this top elk of the pac and given the timing of things, work can be done sped expeditiously and be able to advise n the typical stations. I realize it's a fast timetable between November and March right now.But if there is a mechanism within the process to perhaps supplement and amend. It seems we are cutting back couple of steps to the board in terms of selection at the ultimate vendor. But this really is, it's such an important policy based issue and such a critical issue that we all share right now. I think we would be remiss if we didn't continue doing to help alleviate this issue.6:25 PMLet's get further comment to see what we will do. Member chavez?Thank you very much. I just want to affirm on 6. 6 on the executive summary, the first line, looks t for the capital location 150 affordable housing units that will serve between 30-80% area of median income, and that it is aligned with our affordable housing policy which seeks to develop 35% of its residential transient oriented development as affordable housing targets, targeting 60% that accurate for 6. 6? Is -6:26 PMYes.Is this a policy that we've had an opportunity to review with the committee already?If you are asking in regarding the policy advisory committee? We made a presentation to them as thecommittee chair reported this past month on the board of adopting the tod elements and had a very robust discussion and based on the discussion we had already put on a work lan to revisit them in 2022 with thenumber of items that they had raised.6:27 PMBut are the issues relative to the policy and affordability?I don't think that issue was raised but was about the idea of maximizing the amount of affordable housing and ultimately that's what we are trying to do with these projects.Yes, I appreciate that. what i'm going to recommend really is a review of the actual housing policy that we have in place and if they want to give feedback to that, I think that's pretty critical. And second, I would recommend even if you've done it before is giving an update on the projects that we have in the pipeline and the partnership and the mou that you have with the -- I think that's pretty critical. Second, even if you have done it before is giving an update on the projects that you have any pipeline and the mou that you have with the county. Colleagues, I would like to move item 6. 6 and 6. 7 forward particularly because these projects have as a framework in the housing policies and both projects are going to be competing for measure a dollars. To answer member paul, we have not as a board looked o keep any money aside because we've been trying to go as quickly as possible and for all the measure projects that we have in thepipe lean right now, the agreements the way agreements get structured, the operations and the other parts of the package that need to be put together could include project based vouchers and other thingsthat are becoming less available. There is a sense of urgency moving forward. I think it's really important that the pac be brief and those two actions can be taken concurrently. I would be recommending o my colleagues although i'm not making a motion either, that we move item 6. 6 and 6. 7 tonight with thepresentations requested by the committee and those I recommended as well.6:30 PMOkay, thank you. member lee eng, did you want to make a comment?Yes, I do. the effort wasn't really to gather this for the vote today. I think it's really disappointing that these two items does not really clearly state the amount of affordability and we should be clear about that on the units. I know you said 30-80% ami, but it does not have any components to meet our unhoused and if we are looking at trying to work at being aggressive at serving our unhoused population by 2025, wereally need to revisit this opportunity and do it now. There are recommendations that we can still do, and such as in losa losal losal losaltos, we worked on and pac is meeting next friday. I think we can wait until the next meeting to take action on it and have it go to pac and at the December meeting be able to comeback to us with recommendations. So I would strongly encourage you gos to really table this until the next meeting.6:32 PMChair hendricks: okay, i'm going to make some comments but we'll go to public speakers first.The only public speaker will be blare -- blair. Public speaker: thank you for working on this item. Iunderstand there is a bit of pressure to get this project going. It brought up to my mind the idea of the needs of how we can possibly start to talk about planning for the year 2022 in comparison to the year 2023. It was very nicely stated by committee person lee eng that 2025 seems to be a year that we can be together that will be our future direction. We can possibly plan for a future in 2023 but it's quite possiblethings will need to be put on hold if we plan by 2022 and we can plan for some things but that would be put on hold. Thank you. To i'm pretty familiar with what's happening with the funding and how projects go and the use of measure a funds. I would say what has been brought forward is consistent with what our current vta policy is and i'm always worried about taking something that we've gone through with the one set of directions and we get towards the end and say, no, let's change the scorecard of what we are using about what we are doing. Secondly, i'm actually very concerned with the idea that if we delay this one meeting if what is suggested and you take it back to the pac to say do something different. I think it's highly unlikely that taff will go meet with and what the rfp is, if they want to change the parameters of the project. I seriously doubt that whatever that action might be, you wouldn't be able to come back in a month. Given what I see have seen with measure a funds. We will move things forward and we want to get set at the local level because those projects have to compete very aggressively with very difficult funds that everybody else is competing with. I forget the exact details but several onths ago with the way the scoring is done above us, none of the projects were able to get into the coring category. I believe that's being addressed and changes. So I would be very concerned if we were going to delay ny of the action of this. My thought is and somebody else is going to make the motion. If we move these things forward andin parallel, let's have that overall policy discussion with the pac which is a policy discussion coming back to s as a board. Mr. Gold, you have your hand up.6:36 PMI just want to clarify because there appears to be some confusion. Both of these projects would be affordable. For the projects on the fund availability, at least a percentage of the units have to be for affordable housing. The housing policy that the vta has and we'll go through that process and getting thatagendaized?Yeah, that's what i'm moving towards. We definitely need to have that conversation as to how to optimize the supportive housing with the measure a funds. I will refer also to the staff report. I think the morecritical paragraph is at the bottom of page 2 and it goes to page 3. I will just say this by a way of reminder and it reads 'the measure a funding and the vta artnership has a goal of serving households at 50% ame or below, but it also reads as well as for rapid and supportive housing units. I appreciate Mr. Goal ann's comments that we have an allocation for supportive housing units, but the discussion needs to be had as to how to optimize it and what we are going to do in order to deliver the services and get the maxmaximized return on our dollars. This project is tanningable and foreseeable. This measure a funds is not going anywhere and they have to be considered for this'6:38 PMThis is incredibly important and discussion with ohh and guidelines at target capital station -- that's fine.But the fact is, I don't know what percentage of ami you are talking about, it could be someone living inside of a tent.Chair hendricks.. I would like to move this along. Do you want to make a motion?Yes, I would like to make a motion. With respect to this, and this motion, I would request that we move the policy based issue of how to optimize supportive housing or the housed community on any transient oriented development for the policy of the committee. I would like pac to come back to us.Can I make a suggestion? I think what I heard you say you want to have the vta review its housing policy, and let's have staff come back with. I don't know that the right way to do that is go to the pac first. Let's have vta review the policy, and the pac will be an appropriate part in the sequence of that. Does that make sense or do you want to use your language?6:39 PMWell, I think we need to structure it so we get meaningfu meaningful every step of the way. Because we are talking about these sections of the county and when you are talking about the staff level nd theconstruct timeframe and if you want to be weary about it, that's one approach.6:40 PMWe'll go with your language.I would prefer that we go to pac, that we gather the ideas from policy based perspectives of our various jurisdictions. Please just let me finish. This comes down to ultimately the idea of having inclusionary zoning and it's not just a matter of how do you put affordable units inner ixed with market rate units. I think that is a real obstacle in being able to deliver housing. My jurisdiction has been smeared because we can't get people to build in these very lucrative areas and we have these policies but that doesn't get -- so we need to have this conversation with regards to the unhoused units as well because you are talking about 80% ami. That's very different.I'm sorry to interrupt you, member paul. Can you go ahead with your motion because we are not going to have this conversation now.6:41 PMI will be glad to econd to motion.Member paul, can you read your motion as well.I would like for 6.6 and 6.7 added to if they are going to pass 6. 6 and 6. 7 that we move also to refer the policy based issue of how to optimize supportive housing and services for the housed community of nytransient oriented developments for the pac.And member lee eng seconded. would you like to add to your comments?I would like to add to this because if we don't do this, it's going to slip through the cracks and we are not going to have a say and there is tensions.6:42 PMYou said if 6.6 and 6.7 passed.I will take that as a friendly amendment. That's fine. I will move the staff's recommendation including what I have requested for this to be referred to the pacOkay. member chavez?There is a second?Ember lee eng.Yes, I seconded that.This will move item 6.6 and 6. 7. I want to remind you that the discussion will go back to the pac for the discussion of the policy.Yes.6:43 PMI think the discussion of the policy is a great idea, but if staff believe there is any changes to be made that staff make that recommendation to the full board to the add men and finance committee or the capitalcommittee based on their discretion and then I can support the motion. I do want to say that rapidrehousing is for housing for people that are in need of supportive housing.Chair hendricks.. okay, do any of my other colleagues have any comments they would like to make on this?I have a question. it's not really a question. More of a comment. You know the policy advisory committee is just that. They are just an advisory committee. Not to make it any less, but, the board, we the board have the ultimate, we are the ones that make the ultimate decision. So i'm just wondering houldn't we be the ones reviewing those policies and not really the pac, because I think it's time is of the essence and the urgency. Those are my comments and i'm just thinking out loud.6:44 PMMy understanding of the motion is that these two items are going to be approved if this motion is passed.That we'll go through a process f potentially looking at it will start at the pac for some changes that mightneed to go to our housing policy, and if those are suggested, then they would have to wind their way through the normal rocess and it would be up to the board to make a final decision on that. ShelThanks for that clarification.6:45 PMIt looks like the board ill tell me I did something wrong.No chair. I just want to be sure I have the motion correctly. At this point -- move items 6. 6 and 6. 7 and forward any transient oriented development to the pac.With any of those recommendations going back to the finance or the capital committee based on staff'srecommendation.Member paul, do you accept that friendly amendment?I do.I see you now. thank you so much.Chair hendricks: okay, i'm going to assume all the hands that are raised have already spoken. With that, let's please vote.6:46 PMClerkClerk: [roll call]Motion passed.Chair hendricks: great. i'm going to assume everybody's hand that is up is not wanting o speak. We are going to start with item 7. 5.7. 5. Action item - review and receive the audited annual comprehensive financial report (acfr) for the santa clara valley transportation authority (vta), and financial reports for amalgamated transit union (atu)pension plan, and retirees' other post employment benefits (opeb) trust (both referred to as trusts) for fiscal year 2021. To someone else.6:47 PMYes, thank you. members of the governing body board. This is the nnual comprehensive financial reportand the audit as well as that report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021. The audit mainly is the audit of the annual comprehensive financial report. It includes a few supplemental reports such as the audit pension plan and the opeb plan upon procedures relating to the ridership that is submitted to the u. S.Department of transportation as well. Manually it is # -- mainly it is the audit of the comprehensive report.Typically the audit is done in three phases, the interim and final and reporting phase and the manner that you process receipts and payroll. We look at quite of bit of some compliance with federal requirements and state requirements and receive federal and state funding and management closes the books and we comeback in august and it is the process of confirming the amount in the statements. The statements as of June 30, 2021. They are presented to you by management throughout the year and this process here is just naffirmation and confirmation process process. And then we issue an opinion on the fare presentation of these financial statements. Just to let you know he financial statements are fairly presented according to the county principles according to the united states of america. And these are clearly instead and include 2 atu plans as well and the audit with the adjustment and this agreement with management, we look atsignificant estimates elated to opeb and we are required to communicate to you whether we noted any significant deficiencies. We ad no adjustments to the financial statements and we had no difficulties in performing the audit and no agreements in the estimates used in the financial statements stated. With that I will be happy to take any questions. # before we go to my colleagues, i'm going to open public comment.I'm not seeing any. 1 2, 3. I will close public comment. And I want to state that we accepted the report.Are there any questions? I'm not seeing any of my colleagues raise their hand. I want to say this is really important information for you. If you haven't had a chance to look at the report, I would highly encourage my colleagues to go through that. There are any requests on what the board wants to do.6:52 PMMotion. # we have a motion and second.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] motion passed. Thank you.Chair hendricks.. once again, thank you to the auditors who did the work and the workers at vta that provided the data. Thanks to everybody on that.6:53 PMChair hndricks? if I can say again, I would like to thank grace who is the controller. It's grace and her team who are responsible for this.Yes. thank you. anything else? Thanks, everybody for this. Next item.7. 2. Action item - authorize the general manager to amend contract s16250 in the amount of $6,038,000 with bkf engineers (bkf) to complete final design for the eastridge to bart regional connector (ebrc) project, resulting in a new total authorized contract amount of $30,117,983, and extend the contract to December 31, 2023. Ken rossi, the deputy director of rail and facilities is going to provide the report. Ken, the floor is yours.6:54 PMThank you very much, Mr. Chair. I appreciate it. . This item is to approve an amendment with a contract.The intent is to complete he drawings to the bart connector. The location along the expressway is underway and this contract is the next step for the ultimate construction of the light rail. The amendment is including several changes particularly having to do with the roadway layout to minimize the layout.There is some work for the engineering work to respond to some comments as an independent review. And then there is a lot of level of effort for some various components, such as scada, a litany of things. I want to note that he overall cost remain in accordance with the standards and this needs to be done because it's important that we complete this even in light of other things going on that deserve some presentation.That brings me to my next slide. The progress in relationship with other things, with the engineering and three other main activities. So what the approval of this item do tonight, it would allow the engineering to be complete in the most efficient and complete way and this would be in early 2022, and this would begin the early months for advertising and biddable construction document. That would mean that in thesummer of next year, 2022, we can confirm the actual advertisement of this contract for construction with three things to consider. One, we would need rm 3 funding to be approved in the amount of $130 million.We would need approval of another funding source in the amount of $30 million and we would need to dothe check in, the parallel work and the number of vehicles that confirm the light rail for the technology for this extension. With that, staff recommends approval of this amendment to be postured to advertise at thetime to be most effective and check in in the mid-22 timeframe for advertising for construction. Otherwise there would be a delay and the work would be less effective and increase in cst. With that, I will open up for questions.6:57 PMChair hendricks: thanks. I will go o public comment. I first want to alert to my colleagues and the public, Imade a mistake and we skipped 7. 1. After this item, we are going back to item 7. 1. I want to apologize to everybody. We will go back to that item. For now, we'll take comment for 7. 2.Clerk: yes, we have two public speakers, roland followed by blair. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. I hope everybody heard very clearly about what ken said about not having the funding for r 3 because the bart project doesn't have the funding for r 3 either. Thank you.6:58 PMClerk: chair, we are having some technical issues with our timer and I will just use my phone. I will let you know when I start the timer. Thank you.Thank you. blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair. This item got me start for a few weeks. We need to consider how we start thinking about planning and talk about it as openly as we can and for 2022 as compared to planning for 2023. You very nicely state this item. It's like with the housing item that I thank you for that. For the work on that and I hope that you can be considering with the housing. Like with that item, we can do some stuff in the next year, it sound like. But it should be very clear that we May have to wait through 2 year of 2023 before a project could really start to take off and work. I don't know how actual that is, but to start talking about it in these terms I hope can be of help. Thank you6:59 PMChair hendricks.. it looks like that was the last of our public speakers. I will turn to my colleagues forcomments or questions. Member chavez?7:00 PMMove approval.Second.There is a motion by chavez and carrasco. Any questions? Please vote.Clerk: [roll call] motion passes. Thank you.Don't take the lack of questions as not interested. It's just well presented.7:01 PMThank you. colleagues and to the public, I truly apologize. I scrolled too fast and got ast 7. 1. I will go back to that. 7. 1. Action item - review and accept the fiscal year 2021 statement of revenues and expenses for the period ending June 30, 2021. Kathleen kelly, you are up.Good evening, board members. this item is covering the summary results. This slideshows three columns, the first will focus on the most and the annual revenues for the year and this column shows the budget and the difference between the two. This is the second biennial budget and ou will see a different third column compared to actual budget. Let's focus on the first column, the actual. The top section, you see therevenues and we've divided them into three categories. Fare revenues are only 1/3 from what was projected based on the time when we ad free fares and ridership loss and next tax revenue revenues. In this category, we were very fortunate about the projections made earlier in the year and we ended with a 3 percent drop in sales tax. Other revenues which include the other smaller items were lower than projected.Moving to the middle section, the expense side of the equation and that was also divided into three categories. The irst is labor cost which is 70% of all expenses last year and the managed labor cost to the extent possible to the earlier part of the pandemic and to the budget manageable and then the grant under budget. The bottom section shows the most important number. The agency ended the year with a deficit nder $15 million, $14. 7 million to be exact. That deficit covered the funding funding. As you May recall,there were three relief acts, there was the cares act which vta received $141 million, crsa, and $128 million with about $38 million allocated under the hardship category. In total, vta has received more than $110 million. We had a small deficit in 2020. The biennial budget for 22/23, for a total of $32 million, butthose estimates do not make any assumptions around labor negotiations and all four of our contracts will be up between January and September of next year. So those deficits will increase accordingly. The recommended action tonight is for the board to review and accept the 2021-year-end statement of revenue expenses. These numbers reflect the audited numbers that you just saw in the annual comprehensive financial report and those of you that May have gone back in the report rovided last year tosee how well our year-end projections added up, you will see the revenues came in $16 million higher than we last projected that was in sales tax. Sales tax receipts last year were a little bit weird nd we actually got more in the last month of the year than projected. On the cost side, our expenses was 1%, which was pretty good, I might add. That ends my report. And I stand for questions.7:06 PMThank you. we'll go to public comment on this item.Clerk: thank you. we have two speakers. Public speaker: thank you. The same question I had to thecommittee is what point to the crsa funding and what happened to the remaining dollars after you accounted for the deficit. Did you go to item 7. 3 because I was going to speak to that case.No, we have not done 7.3.Okay, I would like to answer that question right now because that is where I would be looking for the money. Thank you.7:07 PMClerk: thank you, roland. blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: blair, here. I think that mayor deep in his heart tried to procure in san jose the idea of renewable energy and the procurement process in the next few years. I think that's at the heart of where he's trying to go with it. He May not say that, but that's where his heart is at. With that same thinking, I hope that we can start to consider how to go to our good accounting practices. The past few years have been really strange andtypical with covid. I think nuria fernandez did an amazing job with transit operations and did a lot for ourselves and was phenomenal. Now it's good to consider good accounting practices and that will prepareus for the next decade. Thanks.7:08 PMChair hendricks: thank you. that is all of our public speakers. Any questions?Thank you, chair. I was wondering why it was half. Why was there a reduction. Were those contracts negotiated?If ron goal an is here, I would like him to speak on that.Yes, i'm happy to answer we had a cllapse, not we, industry wide. A collapse in the advertising industry basis. Our advertisers approached us and they approached other transit systems and coordinated with thetransit system colleagues, and all of us agreed to do waivers of the mags to really balance what the payments were relative to the diminished revenues hat were received and we all chose to do that to help the businesses remain in business. I will say this and coming to the board in january, the outdoor industry -- advertising industry has not done well and they are ready to walk away from the contract unless we are able to make a substantial change and agreement. We will be coming back to the board in exchange to the discussions with that contract. Really our presentation at that time ill focus on our advertising contracts on what's happening with the advertising industry.7:10 PMThanks, ron. the other question I had related to the $8. 10 million related to caltrai caltrain. Obviously there is a whole stream of revenue from measure r. I'm trying to understand, is that 10. 8. Is it that rr hasn't kicked in yet? I would assume that would go away when rr became effective?Yes, we did and I can't remember the amount that used to be --If I May kathleen, mayor liccardo is correct. That is for that contribution. Shelf okay, it's no longer going to be on the books.7:11 PMYes.Thank you very mch.Any other questions from my colleagues? I'm not seek any other concerns or comments from my colleagues. Is there a will of my colleagues?So moved.Second, chavez. we have a motion and second by liccardo and chavez.7:12 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] motion passed unanimously. Thank you. We should going to move on again. My mistake, we did 7. 2 and went back and did 7. 1, we are now on 7. 3. 7. 3. Action item - approve reprogramming of lifeline transportation program funds from vta route 22 overnight service to vta rapid 568; and adopt a resolution of local support. Celeste is going to provide the report.7:13 PMThank you, board members. it's celeste feuere. This is to approve a lifetime of funding funds. This is not a planning action. This is a fund to the now defunct defunct hpoc procedure. There is $1 million from that service provider to vta's route. However during the onset of the pandemic, vta had an immediate decline in operator availability and demand. And this issued temporary reductions. And prior to drawing on any of the life lea line funds, vta suspended two routes. Staff identified the plan that rapid 568 bus service project as a potential candidate that met all of the lifeline transportation program requirements. The vta passengers in the south county residents suggested the rapid service which is a rapid service to downtown san jose. Ofnote, the service started October 11th. I will mention that the obust discussion at the congestionmanagement program and committee was appreciated. At that time committee members referred to a time frame for service which began necessity last 14 months as vta restored the service and from thepandemic related cutbacks. As a result of provides 21 1/2 hours a week with that two 1/2 hour gap that hasn't been restored yet. This last gap in the service will be restored mid-2022. We need to clarify the service on the 22, but jay tiree who manages the planning program is here to answer any questions about our service restoration plan. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:15 PMChair hendricks.. thank you for that information. Let's go to staff for comments.Thank you, chair. we did receive written comment from blair beakman on this item. We have eugene first, you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: this is eugene bradley. This is rather odd thatwe have seen the robbing peter to pay paul so mary can have some fun given the shifting of what used to be former now the the 22 to support the 568. I was at the ceremony. Thank you for having it. That it's going to return, this is a great thing but a rather odd use of this money. A better idea would be that some of the $10-15 million which should be used for bart. Imagine how this could be used. Thank you.7:17 PMNext speaker is roland. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: I never thought we would stoop this low, but here we are. How many more new drivers do we need to solve this 568 which isa new lookout and why can't we get any of these new drivers to run the 22. By the way, 22 is the lifeline like the 568. It's the rapid system trying to compete with the caltrain. Good luck with that. I would like tofinish with the comments. My advice to this gentleman is to very carefully go back to measure a and read the language before making the kind of statements that you made. Thank you.7:18 PMThank you, roland.Next speaker, please. blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hi, this is blair beakman here, thank you or working on the ideas of open communication to this item. I think it's vitally important however we move forward on this item. I think i'm in favor of the idea of the lifeline funding that it provides a myriad of services that it May not be only applicable to the 568, it could be applicable to the 66, to the 68, to the 22, the 522, maybe. It's important we are learning how to talk about it openly. Thank you for that. I think it's key between staff, committee and community that we learn how to talk about it openly. What is going to be the budget of the vta 22. Covid is spreading in u. K. We have to consider that issue. I wish I so say more at this time, thank you.7:19 PMThank you. we have one final speaker. Public speaker: good evening, board members, a resident ofmountain view and about a block from the 22. With that being said I approve the staff's recommendation for this. You have to reprogram these funds in a timely manner r else we lose them completely. It is a great idea that the line currently from san jose is so so. It would be depressing on people actually taking the bus when they could use it because cal # train is not always reliable and it is necessary for people to get back on the bus. Thank you.7:20 PMChair hendricks: thank you. that was the last public speaker. I'm closing public speaker on this item.Member simitian?Thank you. i'm going to not speak on this item. But talked about restoring this service in mid-2022. If our ceo can confirm that.Yes, if we get 100% service and that is dependent on the recruitment on the bus operators. We are going to have a presentation during the general manager's report as well. But yes, we are planning on it. That is on the next phase of opening.7:21 PMThank you, next, member chavez.I just want to follow up. carolyn, I heard two things, one was yes and the next one I didn't really catch.One of the things that has been reinforced by staff to the board is how important the backbone is to really be able to build off and really the connection between bart and what will be our very busy station Sunday and through our county. So what i'm having a hard time understanding is the priorities of how the build back will happen. My concern about moving back the money, we are moving that money because we don't want to lose that money. That's what staff is sharing with us. That said, I don't really understand the plan for 22.7:22 PMWe can talk about that. hen we pulled back on it, we slowly brought it back, so right now we are running between 4:30 a. M. And 10:00 a. M. And night. Jay can talk about our service and how many routes we have built up. Jay?May I make a recommendation because I think it's hard for everybody to visualize without a map. I don't want to run you jay around a bush or bus route. Can I recommend this item go to whatever committee staff thinks is appropriate in December with an actual build back plan with the alignments and priorities inorder to help us understand those alignments?7:23 PMI actually think that's great idea to bring it to planning. I think what's important is because and you will see, we are currently bringing -- and how we build back.I think we want to be transparent with the oard and the public. My interest too is this reinforcement of thisbackbone and I know jay this is something you are following very closely as we are seeing ridership across the country and a lot of the ridership is with off peak riders using it for work still. That's the other reason this has my attention. Also the needs of the community that use it. If that could come back by december.Sstpo and to the board after that would be great. Thank you.7:24 PMMember peralez?Thank you, I would hike 2# -- like to see this come back as well and that was the request to really find out what the 22 looked like. Appreciate it.Carolyn, are you good with both of those committees?Absolutely.Cool.7:25 PMMember montano?Yes, we did have a lengthy discussion on that committee. So I would like to ask staff, do you think December is too soon, that's just next month?I'm going to ask jay to respond, to come back with a presentation.We can come back to discuss this, no problem.Yes, I do agree with the last speaker because if we don't use it, we basically lose it. So I would like to concur with staff's recommendation.Carolyn or jay, I want to be clear. Are you talking about the December committees and then it would come to the board in January or are you talking about November committees coming to the December board.Just want to be sure we set expectations correctly.7:26 PMMy understanding is this would be a discussion of our priorities and time lean for discussing our last bit oftransit service that will be an information item to stp and sstp in November and december.It's fine. I just want to be sure. It's an expectations thing.Yes, and most months under the general manager report, this would be under the next steps.Cool. any questions by my colleagues? I think I already did public comment. Is there a will of mycolleagues?7:27 PMOve to approve per staff's recommendation.I second that on the subcommittees full compliment of the restoration including line 22.I think that's a friendly amendment that montano is accepting. It's a motion by montano, second by chavez. Any other omments or thoughts by my colleagues? Please vote us.7:29 PMClerk: [roll call] motion passed chair. Thank you.Chair hendricks: that takes us to item 7. 4. $64. 253 million of 2022 state transportation improvementprogram (stip) funds to the u. S. 101 express lanes phase 5 project and $1. 268 million to planning, programming and monitoring; 2) adopt a resolution to program 2022 stip funding to these projects; and 3) authorize the general manager to execute appropriate funding agreements to receive stip funds. [lost connection]7:31 PM[lost connection] I will start with you if you have anything to add.7:32 PMI'm vta staff. here to answer any questions. This particular item is very self explanatory. We have $64 million of step funding available and staff is recommending that that funding go to f 57:33 PM[lost connection] the other observation I will make is that many studies of the expresslanes over the years has shown that often people with low-incomes benefit the most because those are the populations if due to congestion are late for work, they have to pay $6 a minute in daycare if they are late. This shows a wideincome lean. This is an on going issue and that would continue this study.7:34 PMI'm glad that you are taking a practical approach in looking into that because an equity issue in my opinion. So some clarification, is it so 3 now?It's three riders.Like the diamond lane. thank you. Next speaker is member simitian.Forgive me, we had technical difficulties a couple minutes ago. I would like to vote no on the prior item.7:35 PMThank you.Thank you. I appreciate the courtesy.Okay. I think joe is saying he is done with this. Next is member chavez and then liccardo.One issue I wanted to raise is some concerns about the timing and concerned about the listening of time it's taking us # -- length of time and I wanted to raise this with staff because it's on the local community. Iwant to put that out there. The second issue, I want to respond to the point that debra raised and one request is that if you could forward to the board the particular study that you are looking at because I think hat would help me a great eal understand how we think about equity versus the project and the second I would suggest that I know our program is very separate from mtc's program but they are doing some very enter # -- interesting work to address equity and I think it would be good to look at these equitable projects. Thank you.7:36 PMChair hendricks.. member liccardo?Thank you. I have a question about the cost of this project, $139 million. It's not the allocation we are making here today but roughly half of it. I'm sort of scratching my head in trying to understand. I'm astrong advocate of expanding these lanes, these expresslanes throughout our region, I just don't understand why it is so costly for merely extending existing lanes along 101. What exactly is wrapped up in this capital cost. Are we somehow adding lanes or paving? I don't understand this.7:37 PMYes, sir, you are correct. in addition to working existing lanes, we are also adding express lane also. There will be two expresslanes in each direction.So we are widening 101?That's my understanding, that's correct.I see.That would be a good ortion of the 101 lanes because the hov lanes are full.7:38 PMI see. forgive me because i'm sure all of this has been analyzed. Have we stated the option of not widening the 101 lane?I have Mr. Asey on the line to discuss that.Hello, can you hear me?Yes. casey, engineering officer. This is going to be a double lane system and basically extending that 101 south and doing the existing wider lanes. It's using the inside shoulders on the freeway. It's going to be very much what you already ee when you travel on the 11.7:39 PMSo there is a certain amount of paving on the shoulder that we are doing?Yes, we are converting the inside shoulder to a lane. This is the main trunk freeway system through santa clara county and we are providing he extra through put and the carpool lane and even in this time of covidat a time when this carpool lane is not moving as well.Okay, I get it. these costs are always astounding to me. Thank you.Jim or someone can correct me. The 680, this has to do with the express lane. I have seen that project go and that cost and that work has been extended. Any other comments or questions from my colleagues? Is there a will of the board?7:40 PMI have a motion by member chavez.Motion by chavez and second by vice-chair. Member paul?7:41 PMI'm reading the report on the climate impact and that it relies on the network for the expansion. I would be nterested in seeing that data on that report.We have done studies on the revenue projections. I don't know that it was updated anytime recently since I have come back.We can come back with that information. Ome of the information is dated. We are going through a process to update our traffic and revenue date. That study is underway. We could come back with the data that we have as of today.That would be great and very useful information. Thank you very much.Thanks.Chair hendricks: casey, this is glen. Go ahead and share the information you have and tag it with the update with the next report to be done.7:42 PMAll right.We had a motion and second. any other thoughts or comments? I'm not seeing any hands. Board secretary, could you please vote us.7:43 PMClerk: [roll call] [lost connection]Motion passed with 9 ayes, 2 no's. Thank you.Okay, we have already done 7. 4 and 7. 5. We are now moving to 7. 6. The last item on our regular agenda which is to receive an update on the silicon valley rapid transit program. The project chief is going to give us a report. Takis, you have the floor.Thank you, good evening board members. A couple dditions here. Yes, we reached another percent ofcompletion. And the final is the connection with the two tracks with the existing tracks south of berryessa.We are making great progress on our acquisitions. This month we completed 10 property transactions. The big news for us is 60 tunnel easements agreed. This is a very significant accomplishments. We are getting ready to go before the city council in the city of san jose December 7th, January 5th, in front of the santa clara and regarding our design. Couple quick updates from the fta, as you know on 25th we got our letter of intent. Fta will obligate $10. 3 billion or 25% of the final project cost. Whichever is less and theyincluded it in the full funding agreement. This is based on the lower level of design and potential unknowns at the time of the application. Just to remind the board, fta base their assessment on the application at the beginning of our application. I wanted to make one more comment here is that vta made the cost estimates. There is no construction of cost estimates. What fta did for us is the risk assessment. What about if we have labor shortage, what about if covid impacts continue, what about inflation, what about the change with the commodities and the supply chain, what about if gas goes to 750, all of thesescenarios and they are working on that and that's how we got the risk assessment to 9. 1 and they are committed to pay for 25% of it. To come up with the budget on which we are going to build the project on the full funding agreement. It allows 2 years to get the construction bids, actual market base numbers andfinish full funding agreement. Some of you asked in December to brief you of the cost trends, why the project will show months and in December I will go before you ith this discussion. To update you on theprocurement, there is nothing new here. Just we are making a study progress. Believe it or not, on December 3rd, we are expecting to receive our proposals for the tunnel. It seems we are on target to getthose. You can see from the tunnel machine, the contractors, the three competing teams, they are on site and they worked he whole alignment. That's part of the procurement process. Vta had to host a site visit on the competing thing. That worked out very well and we responded at once so we don't have threeprocurement meetings. The third contract which is the santa clara station is on target and the last one of our station, we are considering to delay our station procurement process a little bit. We don't know yet. Idon't know yet how we are going to work on our schedule because the tunnel contractors are asking us to really don't allow other contractors to interface with the operations going on and the time to consider that ground for the service station to be part of the tunnel on the contract. The next page, the scheduleworking on now. Holds this together as we are having any other requests coming in. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:50 PMChair hendricks: thank you, takis. Before we go to board comments, let's go to public comment.Clerk: thank you, chair. before we go to public comment, we have written public comment from Mr. Lebron and that is posted on the website. We have four speakers. The first three speakers will be roland, blare,scott. Roland you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: here we go. We are not going to be spending $9 billion on this mess. Face it, it is not going to happen. Get real or else. That's the first thing that needs to be addressed. The second thing is the funding plan. It's beyond a mess. They are trying to get the money as fast as they could and they ot 25%. San francisco is taking their time and getting 15%, san francisco is also getting mega bucks from the surrounding of the development and this is nothappening. In contrast, when you approved these guys in June and they blew $16 million in september.Thank you.7:51 PMSorry about that. thank you.7:52 PMBlair? hi, this is an item and I have been relating to a few other items on budgeting and planning for 2022 and 2023 and beyond. It sounds like we are at a time to really again to consider a few different accounting practices for the bart projects. I think we made some interesting good decisions in a very difficult time ofcovid, and i'm interested how in this next year, we can do some more interesting practices in just ood solid accounting and really get ourselves prepared in 2022 for the upcoming decade. Good luck. # # # #7:54 PMPlease invest in opportunity to reduce costs.Hi board. I want to alk about the latest cost assessments. I do ant this project to succeed, but I do believe the cost with a bunch of other operating projects that you know the rest which is also with much that wanted to succeed and the tunnel. The threats in the future with what will be eventually coming and -- the one that we need to patch up our long-term financial projections. Everybody has issues with this project. I urge you to onsider that. La metro has managed to get this done very shortly with this very issue.7:55 PMDaniel? public speaker: can you hear me?Yes.Yes, I feel this is a way to move forward and the way to get to diridon, but this comes down to a single bore design. I have spoken to the construction impacts and I will be using this station, when you look at the design of these stations, you have to go down so many feet just to get to the platform. That is something we are going to have to live with forever. I think if we went with a dual bore system, we wouldn't have to deal with that user experience.7:56 PMThank you. daniel. we have three more speakers. James. You May begin speaking when you are readypublic speaker: yeah, james guzman. I really express support 1 day I can actually connect to bart at diridon, but do express a lot of concerns for the project and the high risk exposed by that report and evento further increase cost. It seems like it's taking the time and to get bart through along with this sign review, it was to alleviate construction impacts, but newer methods and experiences in los angeles suggest that it May be possible with twin bore designs to reduce the impacts and achieve some of the goals with minimized introduction -- destruction.7:57 PMWe have three more speakers.Would you get your hands in now as opposed to waiting so we know what's going on with the queue. Public speaker: good evening, board members, my name is adena levine. We want this project to be done and as soon as feasible and also to express concern as with organizations that have worked on measure b, in santa clara county on measure w and santa clara county measure rr and want to get funding for transit in the bay area in the future. This is going to be very difficult to fund. Voters in santa clara county have already voted against this fund and with regional and federal sources will be competing. The cost overrun will be competing with other factors.7:59 PMOur next speaker will be mark. You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hello, thisproject has departed from best practices and international rail development. I think if you look at it, in this dense environment, this really should be a real property development which will be in fact would recoup a lot of its cost for development and commercial. The problem is if you don't have that, it's hard to justify that you are not doing a duck and cover and telling citizens that you are not doing this and instead the barcelona plan and the station s much bigger and much more usable. This cost is a wake up call. I look fort design because we need it for 21.8:00 PMThank you, mark. our last speaker is rayan. You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: good evening, board, my name is rayan, i'm expressing my opinions as a private citizen. I wanted to also reiterate as many others have said that I do support the project, I support having a connection between for bart between san jose, silicon valley and the east bay to san francisco. I'm concerned that the alternative design being chosen is going to be costly and crowd out funding for transit operations and other projects, and I just want to point out that revisiting the twin bore design that has been environmentally cleared May result in less delay for this project since the dual bore job is due at 65 and 2 single bore is only at 30% design and will result more in higher and lower paying jobs. Thank you.8:01 PMThat was the last of our public speakers. Now to board members for comments and questions?I will wait a second or two. i'm not seeing any hands right now. Member liccardo.8:02 PMThank you. I want to comment on the committee, i'm sure I will get the committee wrong. The elements of the taging design I know is the trailing package of bids. Some of those decisions will be surfaced at that committee presumably before the board at our next opportunity, is that right?To staff?Yes, Mr. Mayor.Great. thanks, takis. I look forward to that. I just want to know because there is a lot of misunderstanding about this $9 million that is the range that fta has estimated a cost and there is no fund evaluation, is that right?8:03 PMNo, sir.They took vta's numbers and added a couple escalateors as I understand it, is that right?Correct, sir.The other one relates to the construction cost escalation with this pandemic which e have seen pretty highly uniformly. Is that correct?That's correct.I guess there is a sentiment that somehow or other the federal government looked at this design such as a single borro bore -- or tunnel that vta -- and that never happened.Correct. I submitted this last week and a couple questions along these lines and I explained to everybody that fta did not do a cost estimate. Fta took our estimate as a baseline and went through a probabilityassessment, what if that, what if that, some of the points you were saying, and based on that, they calculated time impacts. When you calculate time impacts on a project like this, you need to consider the cost of the time. Based on that, they said okay, the ceiling for this project, the value if you like it for this project based on the discussion is $9. 1 billion. Now you do what you have to do. Mitigate, mitigate, and bring the cost down as low as you want.8:04 PMThank you.Next month we'll ome in and provide a little bit more detail around what they see, what some of our risks are and how that applies around the project on the cost. That's what most people want to know. Takis knows we are talking about that today. I think a lot of people look at the risk assessment. I find that very useful. They identify the risks. We have been through a number of them with fta. It gives us a chance to mitigate them and actually with this opportunity giving us up to 2 years to get some of the bids, we are able to hone that actual process and create the funding plan that matches that.8:05 PMOkay. and the cost we'll know for sure when the bid come back, is that right?Yeah, it will be a good indication of where we are going to be and help us refine that cost estimateOkay. thank you. I think you know, what's been lost in the news unfortunately is the fact that we actually secured a letter of intent from the fta on through the expedited project liberty program. We were the first and only, metro and the united states, just a secure section agreement and I want to congratulate the team and hard work for getting to that point. I know it was a tough competition because I have hadconversations with the mayor of seattle and number of them were fighting to get into this program. It was very competitive and federal government chose us so that's good news. The challenge of course is theychose us based on a very specific design with a specific set of stations and alignments and I want to understand better if we were to change suddenly that design and those stations, what does that do o the federal letter of intent?8:07 PMMr. Mayor, we are not changing anything. We are just changing the timelines.I'm not suggesting you are changing the project design or the station. I'm just asking, if suddenly if we decided to do something very different from what the federal government approved, does that put us atsquare one? Do we have to go back and talk to the feds about all that?Yes.Okay, I appreciate all the hard work to get us to this point. I think it's important for folks to recognize theprocedural posture of this project and the work over the past 2 decades and now we are at a point with a letter of intent and now the project in shape that can be moved forward in a way that is cost-effective. Ilook forward to making that happen.Thank you.Chair hendricks: to the member of the public raising their hand in the queue, we have already closed public comment on this item. Any other comments or questions from my colleagues? I'm not seeing anything. This is an informational item so we don't need a vote. Just a few comments. We have had good commercial to highlight to people that there is going to be some real meaty stuff in our December meeting. If you leak this stuff, come back next month. Secondly, I want to reiterate mayor liccardo's comments about we should be very happy and very proud about the work that is being done and the actions being taken by the federal government that are in support of the project of what we do and part of the process of what was expected and what we wanted to happen. I think he is absolutely correct to eep the correct frame of mind on and this is very good news from the responses that we got from the federal government. I'm going to go ahead and close the item 7. 6. Now this takes us to 8. 1, general manager's report. We are going to take public comment at the conclusion after all of the general manager's report.Carolyn, i'm happy to give you the floor.8:09 PMThank you, chair. just the few items tonight. We did have a very successful month in October about the opening of the transit station. It's between gilmore and diridon station and started October 11th. We had our ribbon cutting October 14th. I would like to thank our board member blankley who is the mayor ofgilroy and member constantine and member lee eng, and vice-chair kitty moore. They joined us from respective cities. Your support was very appreciate by the staff. And we had great media coverage and we had three online news sites that carried this. Second, is the funding approval for the emissions reductionprojects. The program planning committee. Previously recommended the approval project for the cares act and that includes arterial management and to reduce emission for sunnyvale, los gatos, and diridon shuttle service. The next thing is the bart silicon valley berryessa extension one regional association chapter for the year for transportation category for projects above $25 million. I did join our bart silicon valley team at the luncheon. The award was presented October 20th. They will now submit us at the state level and at that point if we get nominated, we will move to the national level. I'm proud of the team for all their effortson that. Next item is the parade of champions held in santa clara October 9th. Five of our vta busoperators represented vta and sikh communities which honored central workers. I would like to thank them for their participation and representing vta so proudly. You can find this on vta's blog and the operators that did participate were -- I would like to thank them for representing us as well. Finally, I want to talk a little bit about our new bus operators class and I was really honored to participate in that programyesterday. We welcomed 27 new but operators to vta. After compleegt completing a 9-week program. Wehave five new women operators in this class and seven before this one. We had great media coverage and a great way to get the word out that we need operators. I know channel 5 and k pix did a fabulous job stating that we need more operators. It was great being there that day. The energy, enthusiasm at thatgraduation and the camaraderie among them was great. I went to a retirement for the operator who had the lowest number on the his badge, badge no. 745 was his badge number, michael. He actually, he started in 1978 which many of the operators there weren't even born by that date that he had actuallystarted driving. It was great to see someone who really felt rewarded by driving a bus and seeing these next 27 operators as well. I am going to turn it a little bit over to jay to talk about getting more operators and transit service update.8:14 PMThank you, carolyn. a few slides. We restored our light rail system in late august. All three lines are running. What's different from full service, it's mostly frequencies. The weekday frequencies that e are running today is 20-minute service which is normally 15 and the weekends is normally 20. The two phases of restoration on the rail side ahead of us is restoring that weekly restoration restoration. And then on theweekends. If everything goes with attrition and operator hiring, it looks like we'll be able to restore that 15-minute weekday in the spring. A reminder, full service and rail in the bus is in the budget. The factor is hiring and thraraining adequate drivers. We have restored the weekday daytime network, 15-minutenetwork. All of our routes are operating. We are lucky compared to our peers. We have one route that is not and because of our choice, it's a partner route and the partners networks and lockheed martin have not started to up their route yet until employers are back in the office. What's next is the bus side evening and weekend service with bus hour operations. This related to the route 2 and overnight service and why ithasn't been restored yet because there is a lot of weekend trips that were not yet able to restore them.The next and final phase is to restore all of those in evening and weekend service hours and frequencies and we'll do that throughout 22 as we hire and train those new operators. The operator and hiring will beback-to-back until we get full service and we hire train and maintain the full staff level. The next slide, you can see the operator classes that we started in 2021, the back-to-back classes. There is class 5 thatcarolyn talked about that just graduated with 27 operators. Class 6 already started. That's great. Right now we are developing the back-to-back schedule for 2022. T will probably look very similar to this. My next slide, I will illustrate some of the factors that impact this operator probability. This is a snapshot of what we are starting with buys operators October 1st through the 3 months extending October 31st. Ou can see the line items here, the first line item, this is the number of bus operators that are leaving the bus operator position and becoming something else. This is great and they are advancing in their career and opting to do something else nd promoting and we love to grow our talent from within and there are utoperators that are leaving during these 3 months to become something else. The next line is the light rail operator. We are hiring and training new light rail operators and those come from buses as well. Let me backup and say, a lot of our operations positions throughout the agency, all pull from the bus operator pool. So that's wonderful, but it does open up vacancies when it comes to those open positions. The last line item is the 27 graduates. And we have retirements and separation scheduled and uscheduled. So you can see that it's a challenge. This went will be a challenge for us because we are going to end with feweroperators than we started with. It's a good thing, we are promoting from within. I don't want to give theimpression that we are working backwards and going backwards because there is a class that's going to graduate just before December 1st that will come online. The winter is always a typical for us. We have a higher attrition due to classes and retirements and separation. That number will grow from our class in 2022. Right now, it is a challenging environment to be hiring in. No surprise. Most of our peers, if not all of our peers in the bay area are hiring and competition for talent is high. Our human resources department a couple months ago started to ramp up their hiring for vta and started highlighting the programs, path in -- participating in outreach events, our bus operator recruitment is open and not time limited and we are targeting under represented groups and using greater strategies that have worked in the past to entice folks to work for va.8:20 PMI do appreciate what jay talked b -- about, but it looks like we are taking two steps forward and one step back and also trying to offer opportunities moving forward. It's a balance and trying hard to work with that. So I think -- the next item the is the information item on s. B. 129. The joint labor managementcommittee. It's jp and steve?8:21 PMNo, you get me tonight. sorry.We just get brandy this evening.Everybody has so many things on their plate. So i'm going to take this one for the team. Thank you for putting up my sleds. You heard from all of us last month, but we did give you a joint update on the stateallocation working plan that we were working onment we really did attain feedback for the workforce development staff. To say the application is with them now and we are waiting their review. The second item is a status report on the workplace safety and culture review. As a reminder, this effort is leading in rganizational wide culture in climate information through the experience employed by vta. Our committee was also tasked with producing an rfp, the scope of work that sets clear goals and expectations to set oalsfor identifying challenges and risks and pitfalls and culture and climate. The final plan is to rfp this issue this month with an award recommendation to the vta board in february. There are a lot of things that need to take place in between there. This is our road map. We have good people, good energy behind it to get it done so we can begin our much anticipated transformation. I'm pleased to share that we did share information with the county and to tour the future site of vta's resiliency center. This building is off jillianstreet in downtown san jose, a county owned building, turn key operation. The current tenant is moving out in the next week and we'll turn that space as a wellness center for individuals affected by the mass shooting and a place for recovery. Our goal is a soft opening in early december. I want to emphasize that even though we haven't had a building for this work to take place, I want to remind you that work with mental health has been having and the goal is to have a place o receive these services and support and we are a few short weeks from that. We are very grateful. A big kudos to the county and our partners in the county for your continued support. That's it from us. Thank you very much for your time. I'm happy to answer any questions.8:25 PMI know we had this listed as a pause but why don't we continue with the rest of your report.The last one is 8.1 b, a brief update on public employee's reform act. And news about that.Thank you, carolyn and good evening. I get the good news item at the end of the report. I'm sure all of the board members are familiar with the public employees pension reform act which is all of your employees in the city are subject to that. And are all the employees at vta. It impacts transit employees because not only are they public employees and members of the calpers system, we also have our own atu pensionfund for the employees as well. As you May recall, as of January the 1st, 2013, two classes of employees were created for pension purposes. Those hired on or after January 1, 2013 are considered new employees, and those hired previous to that date are considered classic employees. The majority of thechanges impact new employees. One of the major changes that is required new employees to pay up to 50% of the defined pension cost and prohibit employer from covering any portion of that 50%. Stablish minimum requirement ages were different. Like the service requirements for change and several otherlimitations on the maximum pension benefit pay outs. Vta along with other ransit operators from california oppose the position of etra on transit employees. The transit act of 64 requires the state for all grants of transit service operators and section 13 c says that this certification must be given the guarantee thatcollective bargaining of transit employees are protected. Despite the objections of the transit industry, this became law and went into effect 8 years ago. In 2013, the department of labor concluded that petra included two california transit agencies, they were ac rt and monterey as a test case. The dol concludedthat this demanded the bargain and the two trials granted. The state of california and the transit agencies uccessfully petitioned and injunction and agreed with the transit agencies that the deal or decision was not correct and the language was in fact stronger than that. In June of 2019, the court evaluates this decision and did not agree with this certification. Nevertheless, October 28, 2021, the department of labor reversesits opinion last Friday by returning the original position. On friday, the employees were notified by fta that effective immediately they would know be accepting applications. All fta and the department of labor madean announcement that they will not receive any grant nd several grants affect our funding and impacts service and increased cost for deferred maintenance. In the event transit employees become exempted from pepra, unwinded new employees corrections alone would be incredibly complex and incredibly costly.Vta's joining the state of california, la metro and transit and others in questions a stay from the district court in will this matter is adjudicated by the courts. This is a complex issue and can have a major impact on vta and we can keep you posted as things progress. Thank you.8:29 PMI know this is rather complicated, but I think it's something the board needs to hear. Primarily, now told byregion nine has told to all transit operators that are not processing the new grants from the transit operators who had this affect from the deal or information. New role. I just want to let you know there is written governing body affairs including statistics. That concludes my report.8:30 PMThank you very much. a ton of stuff in your report even though it nly includes a smuttidget. We are going to take public comment now.8:31 PMWe have two speakers. scott followed by roland nd blair. You May begin speaking when you are readypublic speaker: thank you. My thoughts go out to those affected by the shooting in may. It is somewhat vague by the security measures put in place and wonder if the light rail facility has now equired people to walk through metal detecter and if nt, why not. Thank you.Thank you, scott. our next speaker is roland. You May begin speaking when you are ready.I'm waiting until the end for the slide and I didn't see it. The only time the vta area shows the ridership recovery. But I did look at these slides and i'm seeing bus and light rail. My question is what happened tobart. We spent over $4 billion so far. It will be more than $5 billion before we are done. It's 5,000 riders that you are projecting. The other thing is the fare box recovery because right now we are sending $100 million to bart in 200 measure a and b and $50 million a year. At some point if we can have some discussion about what's going on here and how we are going to be surviving moving forward. Thank you.8:32 PMOur final speak siser is blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hi, blairbeakman. Thank you for tonight's meeting. It was the issues of oh bag and the technology involved. I thank you for the lifeline issues for talking about that, and I eally think this can be a community health and safety project. There is really good equity issues involved with it. So good luck on how we can do it. I thought it was interesting on how committee person chavez asked to return in December because we can reevaluate where covid is in this country and returning to the 24 hours at this time. Thank you for yourleadership on this issue.8:34 PMThat concludes public comment.Thank you. I will go to my colleagues for any comments on the general manager's report. I'm just waiting.Carolyn, I want to go back to say you talked about an operator that started here at the organization in 1978. And i'm an old fart and I thought back what was I doing in 1978 and I was still in high school. To think of someone at this organization that long, I think it says something great about this organization and certainly says something great about this individual that went and found a career that they had that muchenjoyment to do that long. I think that's a great little story. I'm not seeing any comments from my colleagues. We are going to 8. 2 which is a chairperson's report and we'll take public comment at the endof this. I have a couple of items that I want to discuss. The time is now to consider the board for the year 2022. Each year we elect a chair and vice-chair. And according to policy we rotate these among the groups. For the 2022 term, the board chair shall be selected from city group one, which is the city of san jose, and the board vice-chair shall be selected from any representative from the city groups 2-5 which was the north valley, west valley, south county and northeast. So, in addition, those who are interested in serving as a chair, must make sure that they are serving on the vta board in 2022, and for the vice-chair,they should be able to serve on the vta board in 2022 and 2023. Any legeligible member can submit to me and copy elaine because she helps keep me straight on everything. And at our December meeting, I will announce those who have shown an interest in serving and we will also take nominations from the board as well and we will elect the chair and vice-chair and they will take office in January 2022. My next item is included in your packet for meeting dates proposed for 2022. And on queue, the team has shown on the board here. Please schedule and notify the board office if you see any potential conflicts. We are going to consider these dates at our December 2nd meeting. If we can get 95% of the board on these dates, we also have alternates for these positions. I just want to thank and i'm changing gears now. I just want to again thank all the vta employees that are out there. We talk about operators and rail and light entrance and finance. Just across the board, people in the organization. They are out there working really hard in the environment we have here. I want to say thank you to the employees because you are doing really good work everyday and we really do appreciate it. I also want to thank henry ramirez again. I thought that was a great story that someone about just to help out a human being. That concludes my report. We are going to take public comment for 8-2, 8-3 -- a, b.8:38 PMPublic speaker: i'm wondering if you can take the newly elected after he is seated because if you don't, we will have a performance by what happened last year where you were elected by the dearly departed who left the board right after they elected you and everybody else ended up with you, Mr. Chair which May or May not have been happy with. I thought that was a consideration. Thank you and good night.8:39 PMOur final speaker is blair. public speaker: hi, blair beakman. I look forward to the meetings as well. Just how it would be more relaxed for public comment time to try to practice my words. Thank you. I think i'mtrusting what mayor liccardo is trying to work towards with the bart issues and it's nice. I feel he can offer a good direction. I feel my own set of ideas and conservative guidelines can help for next year. Good luck on how we can work on the issue. Thanks for your meeting tonight.8:40 PMChair hendricks: that's the last of the comments of the public speakers. Are there any comments from myboard?I do.Member montano?I agree with you with our staff working hard. But hen i'm out there, I don't see many women bus drivers. I think we should have a campaign to recruit more women bus drivers. Those are my thoughts. I don't know what other board members think. But I think trying to recruit more aggressive recruiting for women drivers. Those are my thoughts. Thank you.I will just go ahead and speak for staff because I think they already stated it. They are trying to do dditional recruiting for under representative groups, not just on the female side. The other thing is I wasactually encouraged in the report by one f jay's slide where he showed in the last two operator classes, the number of women that were there because I attended one of the operator graduations would have been back in the juneish kind of timeframe and here was only one woman in the class. So I was actuallyencouraged by that there is work being done, but staff, and carolyn, if you want to respond, there is more work being done to reach out o different groups.8:41 PMYes, I think the women area was under represented. E had a gentleman yesterday who actually at one time in his life was homeless and using the bus line 22. And he's turned his life around the last 15 yearsand the other day he got to drive the line 22 as a bus operator. It was just wonderful to see and just working with people and recruiting and the ones that have the desire to be a bus operator and transit. It'swonderful. I think to keep saying the opportunities that are there for people and even working and discussing this with atu and how to reach out more and the opportunities that maybe we haven't been able to actually reach out. It is really hard right now with the job market, so we are continuing to take a look at our wages as well.8:42 PMChair hendricks: any other comments or thoughts on the chair's report?I will note that member chavez has a referral on the online packet and her hand is up. I don't know if she wants to comment on that.8:43 PMThank you. I do. I just want to share with my colleagues that this is a request from mid-pen to ask vta to consider being a project sponsor because they are working on highway 17 wildlife and trail project to create a safe passageway for animals and to close the gap on the 5-mile bay area ridge trail. And mid-pan understand they are not an expert in transportation project and looking for support from project management from our crew. They sent a letter last Friday asking for support. I think this project alliance with vta's for support for environmental stewardship goals. Really what i'm asking is to just ask the staff to come back next month and determine whether or not this is a request that is within our purview and we have the capacity to manage, and we'll look forward to that coming back to us next month for feedback.By the way, they are not looking for money and I realize having staff engaged is a commitment. Thank you for your consideration.8:44 PMThank you, next is member montano.Thank you, glen. I want to ask for a referral. Los angeles county has a pilot program for ree fares forstudent. It was in an article in la times for 2021. I would like to have staff to look at this free fare for high school students. Providing a program would really bring great benefits to achieve. I would like to have milpitas high school to be the host. It has close to 3500 high school students, and I would like to see that study. Thank you.8:45 PMOkay, thank you. next is member liccardo?Thank you. my apologies, I was on light rail when that discussion came up and I know there is discussion to the staff on the return to the board discussing a future light rail system and future to the board on therubber tire base technology. I just wanted to inquire and ask for a referral that we understand when this might be coming back to the board and when that analysis might be likely to be complete.8:46 PMOkay. I will just say I can see perron -- pen -- on paper and people are taking these notes of what's being asked for. Any other referrals to the administration? Thank you very much or those. I'm not seeinganything else. I'm moving on to 8. 4. Anyone have any announcements? I'm not seeing any. That's going to take us to item 9. Closed session. We'll be discussing 9. 1a through g. Before we go to closed session,are there any embers of the board that would like to address any closed session items. I see one hand raised. This is just comments about closed session, nothing else.8:47 PMThank you, chair. anne marie, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello? Good evening, I would just like to thank the board for, I understand item g, 9g is discussing the retroactivehazard pay. I would like to thank the board for recognizing and taking it up and discussing the issue at hand. Thank you.Thank you very much. it looks like we've got other speakers.Clerk: yes. we have two more speakers. Rachel, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. My name is rachel garcia. I'm an operator out of atu 265. Again, I would like to also thank the board for bringing up the item on item g for retro hazard pay for my fellow operators. As explained before, we have been out there since day one, we put our lives on the line, our families lives on the line. To see that there is an item on the agenda tonight to discuss that, I really appreciate it, and I know my fellow brothers and sister apprs iat appreciate it also. Thank you.8:48 PMThank you. our last speaker will be blair. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, thank you. Blair beakman, I would like to second the two comments from the previous speakers. Thank you for your words. There has been help throughout the bay area to help with hazard pay with localgovernment workers. Good luck to see their examples and to be able to use their examples in what you will be talking about tonight. Thank you.8:49 PMThank you, blair. we have one final speaker. Roland. You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair. I would also like to chime in and remind you that the city of san jose councilapproved hazard pay forefront line orkers back in february. The county has just approved $17 million for every single county employee including senior management, and here we have, we still haven't done anything about our frontline workers at vta. I will put it to you that there is something seriously wrong with that. Good night.8:50 PMChair hendricks: that is all of our public speakers. I'm closing that part of the public section. Board members, the information link is sent to you. We have to come back after this closed session. The easiest way stop and go to the video section. I'm going to alert everyone that we have an estimated time of 90 minutes for this closed session to go on. I'm just trying to set expectations for everybody. Hopefully we'll be done fster. It could take