Good morning!Good morning, everyone. happy friday. The vta board of directors meetings of friday, June 17, 2022, is called to order.9:01 AMRoll call, please.Clerk: blankley, chavez, davis, hendricks, jain, jimenez, lee engine, montano, peralez, constantine, liccardo. Thank you.We have an addendum to our agenda. 6. 3 revised. Staff requested the following changes. To place on consent agenda iem, 8. 3, remove from the closed session session, and member liccardo requested to put the last item on the agda9:03 AMAny questions?It's been moved and seconded by jain and board member leen.9:04 AMClerk: [roll call]Thank you. motion passed.Thank you.Thank you. there are no awards and commendations. Next item 3.3. Public comment reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within theboard's jurisdiction but not on the agenda. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. This section of the agenda is limited to no more than 30 minutes but could be extended at the discretion of the chairperson. Those who requested to speak but were unable to address the board on item #3 due to the time limit will have theopportunity to address the board on the second public comment, under ' other items' . The law does not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under specialcircumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing. The contact information is on the screen. Before we call for speakers, please adhere to ur rules when addressing the board. They areon the public speaker timer slide you see on the screen. If you want to address the board on matters not on the agenda, please raise your hand now using the app or press star 9 on your phone. We will now start public comments.9:05 AMClerk: yes. Mr. Beakman, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair beakman, happy end of june. I want to offer my usual. There is over 40 speakers at the north area bart station. I think we can do that many. We are working on ideas of reimagine and racial equity. I think 5-10 can do thesame thing as 40 plus. With 28 seconds left, good luck in how the vta can possibly have an important role in the future of housing studies of mixed income ideas. We are sort of lacking on study sessions on mixed income in the bay area. If resources could do those studies to help out with those cities to help us in the future. Thank you.9:07 AMMichael, you are the next speaker. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, board, can you hear me?Yes. go ahead.I want to address something that I know has been an on going issue with the elevators. I know there has been problems in the past with the elevators in the transit centers smelling like urine. I saw a post by transit authority mass. They had this sign around the elevators which might e a good idea of maintain and checking the elevators for not us that use them ut all the riders.9:08 AMThank you.Next speaker, please. 4847. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I don't know ifthat's my number. I want to make a public comment since i'm the alternate. I was at the station and the previous commenter mentioned about the urine in the elevator, but my concern is the stalls that they are really smelly, and I would like to see whoever is in charge of that jurisdiction at the durham station to check the stalls because they smell really bad. I couldn't even sit down in that stall because it's pretty bad.Those are my comments. Thank you.9:09 AMThank you. do you have a comment, glen?Yes, that station is maintained by caltrain and we will notify them.Thank you.That concludes your comments, Mr. Chair. okay. We don't have any items on 4.9:10 AME move on to committee reports. We will take comments for items 5. 1 under this section at the conclusion of reports. 5. 1. Committee reports committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (miller, vice chairperson)Yeah, thank you, chair jones and thank you to the vta board and vta staff for having me this morning. We have big news, as is part of our duties under measure a, the citizens watch dog committee, part of the advisory committee, did complete and publish our annual report for the public for fiscal year 2021. And the bottom line, and i'm really proud. Our conclusion is that the dollars were spent in accordance with the ntent of measure a. For those that are interested, this report should be published at this point at our website, www. Vta. Org/2000 measure a. Please let your citizens know this is for them to review. Thatconcludes our ballot responsibilities for this year and we'll look t it next year. And to the citizens advisorycommittee we have an interest for you for the measure b category guidelines. Again, members of the citizens advisory committee -- so there was a lot of discussion to get clarification about the rograms work and put together. A lot of stuff related to the county expressway's project fruitful discussion. And did approve it. And for the grant screening criteria. There was a lot of discussion as to what the bar would be for just applying for a grant. There was a concern that previously studied and were they eligible and how to comply and complete the entire study to even apply. There are more detailed notes in the memo under your discussion we also canceled our July meeting and our next meeting is wednesday, august 10, 4:00 p.M. If not, thank you for having me.9:12 AMThank you.9:13 AM(pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore)Good morning, chair jones. Thursday June 9, 2022, the policy advisory committee recommended the vta board of directors adopt an updated program ategory guidelines for the 9/2016 program categories and indicated the board of directors approve the 2016 measure b noise abatement program and community walls and sound walls as defined by cal trans and the federal government and the amount of freeway milesin the county. We received a presentation from cal trans staff on the adopt a highway maintenance agreement program and third quarter transit operations performance report and lastly, requested that theyadd to the pack for future meetings, one, a discussion of potential use vta surplus land or transitional housing, and two, vta 2016 measure b annual report on fiscal year 2021. The upcoming pac meeting will be august 11, 2022. And held on zoom. Thank you.9:14 AMThank you. there are no reports for items 5. 1. C and d. We'll now take public comments under all the committee reports.Yes, Mr. Chair, we have one, Mr. Beakman, you May go ahead and begin speaking. Public speaker: thank you for the report from chairperson miller. I think t concepts of public oversight are really important to the future of how community functions for sustainability and good purpose. I think we are doing someinteresting work with measure a and measure b funding and I think it is hopeful and thank you for the report that was given. You mentioned about the pac items, consideration transitional housing and landissues. To just again offer every other major metropolitan area in california has been going through a study session process on the future of mixed income ideas. The bay area is not. I don't know if that's a control measure or experiment kind of thing.9:16 AMThat concludes public comment, Mr. Chair.Chair jones: thank you, public comment for item 5. 1 is closed.5. 2. General manager report. (verbal report) after all items under the gm report.Good morning, Mr. Chair. i'm very happy to start my report on a few employees that I want o recognize.Carlos low pressure system, natalie martinez, melody canales, shona burnett. A would be suspect came on and started threatening him with a weapon nd he was able to notify of the situation. He kept alm during these extreme circumstances and waited for help to arrive. At the same time, he remained vigilant andnotified county locations and at this point was headed off under the duress of the hijacker. And provided time points and remained in constant communication with the field supervisor as a dispatched armedsecurity to the bus. Ms. Canals and burnett were able to stay in communication and the officers were able to arrest the hijacker. Another event, May 7, martinez was driving her us on route 66 when she noticed a young child, about two or three years old walking alone on the sidewalk. She immediately recognized thatthe child was in a dangerous situation. She promptly pulled over her bus retrieving the young child. Ms.Martinez provided the child comfort and shelter -- on her bus while contacting security and the little boy was kept safe until the child was reunited with his family. Ms. Martinez calm and quick action, saved this tragedy and boy's life. I'm proud to have these employees at vta and thank you for all you do. The next area I want to cover is the bus operator graduation. As we continue to recruit, train and graduate new bus operators, i'm happy to report a new class of 15 bus operators are now at vta after graduating from theirnine week training program this past thursday. There are five new women. Vta now includes 146 women which is only 15% f our total bus operators. We know there is still more to do. We know these are excellent paying jobs with great benefits and want to be sure our workforce is improving in our community and working with our managers and unions and bringing more women into the operator ranks. My congratulations to all of our new operators. The external affairs activities. I want to cover a few. Earlier this month, I attended the american transportation association afta where leaders came to talk about challenges. The first of its kind, vta held a session called building an employee mental health care program within your agency. I want to share my appreciatio to james shapiro from the district attorney's office, aresident psychologist and vice-president of atu as well as brandy for being on the panel with me to share our story of how we are turning a strategy to lessons learned and this is for the attendees that covered awide variety of transit agencies throughout the country as well as actually we had a few from canada as well that talked to us. With regards to this continued coverage, we had a technical trainer interviewed on nbc area which also airs in spanish on telemundo on channel 48 and received surveillance photos of one of the men and was one f our bus operators. I do want to make a mention that we are really aware of what isabout these operator assaults and we are continuing to have some presence on that and i'm glad that e are able to present this next item. This was presented as stpno and vice-chair constantine asked for this item to come back and happy to have a discussion with the board about this. If there are no -- anyquestions, please let me know.9:22 AMOkay, I will move on to captain cardoza.Good morning to the board and everyone else in attendance. We can start the first slide. The first slide, this covers the operator notification. Usually we get calls in throh otc which is vta's ispatch operations control center. Over folks that call 911 and call -- sheriff's transport and law enforcement for vta. For bart, we patrol the transit system wide and as well as milpitas bart. For some methods we take. We make sure the scene is secure and request medical aid for witnesses and including suspects and responding law enforcement personnel, conduct interviews and get as much information as possible including interviews ofvictims and witnesses and suspects. In the case where suspects are apprehended and arrested, thosesuspects will be bused into jail. Some of the other things we do on the back end after responding to the scene, collecting statements and looking at persons who are responsible. As we notify the office, this is a federal mandate that we have to take on all operator assaults on a mass transit system for tsa. For instances we do not make an arrest, we get as much information we can on a suspect including video surveillance, photos, any information that we can collect to help identify the person responsible. Once an arrest is made, we file the case with the istrict attorney's office and we lso report the staff on the monthlymeeting with vta and atu. The transit union for the vta. This is some information that was provided to us by the district attorney's office. This is their stuff that they have taken as a process and what they look at in determining face value and whether or not to prosecute. Cooperation and interviewing the parties and body cam footage from law enforcement personnel, and sometimes these situations occur abruptly and quickly and operators don't have a good look. Officers also look at the suspect's mental health and assault or penal code or misdemeanor and whether it involved a weapon. And officers iling ppropriate charges.Here are some of the stats for the last three months of officer assaults. Last month we had four assault cases, four arrests were made. In all four cases we made an arrest for march. In april, we had four reported operator folks and we made four arrests in those chaos. In may, we had four assault cases andmade 3 arrests. There was a fourth one I added in may. The one involving the person that brandished amachete. And the violence nature of that call, included into the operator assault cases. This last slide, this highlights one of our most recent cases that we are investigating at the time. This is an assault that occurred on a vta bus stop operator at the north station a few weeks back. This was a case that happenedreally quickly as the operator was getting down to boarding the bus to take a break. Quickly and abruptly this person ran to the bus operator, punched him in the face and rendering him unconscious, knocking him to the ground. When deputies arrived on scene, the suspect was not there and we canvassed he area. Thisis the best footage we were able to get from an elevator angle. We are working with the public to release photos out by way of media, broadcast media and social media. So far we have some leads and hoping to get more iformation.9:28 AMThat concludes the powerpoint version.9:29 AMI can answer any questions from the board or anyone in attendance.Chair jones.. we'll take questions at the conclusion of the report.Carolyn?I think that concludes 5.2 a and b there is a report. And we'll take questions on the overall general manager's report.We'll take public comment now on only the gm report. Do we have any speakers?9:30 AMClerk: yes, bradley and beakman and anne. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Eugene?John? you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: john, i'm going to talk about the one minute. I have three items to speak on. Will I get three minutes? no. First thank you for recognizing those operators.We lost you john. can you hear us?Yes. can you hear me?You were thanking carolyn for recognizing the operators.9:31 AMJohn?Let's put john on hold and come back to him.Okay. eugene? can you hear me? Public speaker: I can hear you. Can you hear me? Public speaker: good morning, board and staff, eugene bradley. I would like to thank the officers and staff for handling the horrible hijack attack recently. I want to thank ms. Diane and regarding the concerns that occurred in January and have not heard from anybody on this. The question I had is vta and the sheriff's department working with officers and other municipalities such as gilroy and palo alto to secure buses, passengers and facilities. I never got an answer to that. Also in hese jurisdictions monitoring the buses and these are requests given all the assaults that i'm talking about. Thank you.9:32 AMThank you,Next speaker, please. john? Public speaker: thank you for your patience. I'm assuming you can hear me.Yes.I apologize. I want to say thank you, carolyn for the recognition. This is what we do everyday and brings asense of pride from the sheriff's department when we see what we can do and when we get together and do it collectively. Thank you. I also want to talk about the new operators, and again, we are starting to hireand let's hope that these folks get on a clear path that doesn't involve with the threats of not coming home at the end of the day. I think we have a long-term plan for that and asking the board members to sort ofpersonalize hese assaults and think how would you react if it were your daughter, husband or son or your wife to be subjected to this abuse. I asking that you consider that in that light, thank you.9:33 AMNext speaker, please. beakman. You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: blair beakman has a lot of secretions -- the - chair has a lot of discretion about the public time, meeting time and when john wants to speak at public comment time, maybe he chair in the future can allow an additional minute or two to allow john to speak his words. I think that's an important concept we need to go over for the future. Good luck how we can work on that issue. With 17 seconds about law enforcement issues. San jose was talking about a lot of aopr data collection issues that are coming up. We really have towork on aopr issues, be weary of aopr and use minimal practices, please.9:34 AMNext speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: good morning, I would like to discuss the deescalation that our operator and occ displayed is amazing, and I know our operators were working on doing and deescalation training that has gone from one day now down to a one hour videotape. I love that we have 146 women, however that number is about to drop because of the vaccination mandate. There are 10-15 employees that are in jeopardy of losing their job. 20%. That number is going to drop significantly. Mental health is always an issue and needs to be addressed especially with the looming loss of employment. Thank you.9:35 AMThat concludes our public comment, Mr. Chair.9:36 AMYeah, i'm really dismayed and concerned about the safety of the bus drivers. I'm shocked actually. I'm wondering what the board is, what their plan is? I'm asking to possibly consider bodycams and can possibly get the aces of the abusers and catch them. I'm really shocked at the safety. That's it. Thank you.Thank you, carmen. now public comment is closed for item 5. 2. I'm going to the board and director chavez.9:37 AMDirector chavez: thank you and good morning colleagues. A few things on the report. First is it was great to see 15 new operators and great group of women. I know that's something that vta has been working on for a long time. So congratulations. I also want to really acknowledge the leadership of our two operators and our two communication folks in terms of both protecting a child and really keeping your head aboutyou when someone's got a machete is kind of overwhelming to imagine. So I wanted to just acknowledgethose leaders in the organization. But to turn my colleagues, to turn our attention to the issue relative to assaults, a couple things that I -- four issues that I wanted to reflect on and I had an opportunity to speakwith our general manager and the head of atu, john courtney, to discuss some ideas about what we can do to really prioritize the safety of our employees. I wanted to share the discussion and to let you know that both carol carolyn and john thought of these ideas and I would like to share with you now. First, i'm very interested in us directing our staff to partner with agencies to do a thorough review of current protectiveservices in order to formulate recommendation for meaningful policies to create safety and support for employees. This should include a review of the sheriff's current role and responses, the district attorney's current role and responses, allied, our contractor's role in responses and the role in responses of the vta supervisors including the role in support provided to employees working through mental health and law enforcement and legal processes caused by the incident. Carolyn shared with all of us that we will be getting a new chief officer for vta and this comes in line with the new employees from the vta coming in.Second, that i'm very interested in staff working with the district attorney's office and sheriff's office to take a look at immediate actions as well as making long-term recommendations for policy improvements.And looking at those policy improvements to come to the board. Actions requiring board approval should come in the august meeting and include in the august reports. This what i'm specifically focused on here colleagues is that right now, we don't have a mechanism for protecting our drivers from abusive riders. So if a rider is abusive to one of our employees, they are able to get right back onto another bus and sometimes that very next day. So i'm very interested in us looking at what protections from riders that are held to temporary restraining orders. Third, I would like us to create a security campaign that clearlydemonstrates to the drivers and the public that e are taking appropriate security measures on our vta vehicles and at high frequency stops and stations. This should make a clear and public message that we are not going to tolerate this just as we handled the folks wearing masks othe bus. And could also include a public campaign which I think will be helpful in getting riders feeling comfortable coming back onto public transit. Finally, I would like very much to direct staff to direct a standing report and having thisconversation through a governance and audit committee to have a discussion on each of these items so we are filling these gaps on protecting our employees. Colleagues, I recognize this is a lot of information. I'm happy to have it sent to the clerk and sent to all of you. As I was thinking about this item and after speaking with both Mr. Courtney and ms. ghanat, we have to et up a frame and come back to the boardwith very concrete terms for how we are protecting our employees and light rails and stations.9:42 AMThank you.Chair jones: thank you, director chavez. I am supportive of your recommendations.Vice-maychair constantine.I brought this issue up because a number of our employees brought this up to me. I wanted to highlight it for the entire board and want to thank board member chavez for moving this forward and getting a better handle on it for the board's edification. I did meet with the team and would like to get more information.We talked about priority one and two. Ould you go over those briefly and what those are and frame your response times with us as well.9:43 AMOf course, vice-chair. priority one is for a life threatening situation where law and sirens. Priority two wouldbe more of an urgent here there is no immediate life endangerment and could be that an assault already occurred and the person already left the scene. The ajority of our officer calls hese fall into this priority 2 range which do not require to drive with lights and sirens.9:44 AMAnd in the report captain, you said the average response time prior to assaults is about 12 minutes, is that correct?So I wasn't prepared.I'm sorry, we discussed this a few weeks ago. I didn't mean to put you on the spot. My apology. Some drivers have told me that the response is longer. Can you go to the action and I asked you the question about the joint safety committee and how discrepancies work when that is brought up?9:45 AMWhen we do the narrative of the cases usually the month prior, we'll talk about the locations and trends atu has questions and mainly work towards solutions and response time and the assaults to be cut down and information sharing the type of collaborative meeting and working towards solutions. Going back to the response times, off the top of my head, we have an average of 2 minutes for no. 1, and 2, in the teens.9:46 AMIs it possible that I can get president courtney's take on the joint safety committee?Yes.If he's available.I'm available. thank you.Sergeant cardoza, I know how you feel. I was put on the spot as well.He's a captain.Captain, I do apologize. thank you for bringing this up and shedding some light on this. By and large, the atu, the safety committee works as a functioning committee, but I think the assault issue needs some separate look and perhaps more attention separately. Just to have a line item was mentioned once a month that even the captain has to respond to isn't really fair. I think we need o take it outside of thecommittee. I'm tired of subcommittee. I think that's what supervisor chavez is talking about here and looking at it more of on a global light and as we approach it that way, we'll be able to make our regular safety committee even better. I hope that helps.9:47 AMThank you very much. I do appreciate thatCaptain, I appreciate it. I don't mean to put you guys on the spot. I know that we've tried very hard and as a retired firefighter I couldn't do your