Good evening, the regular board meeting of the santa clara valley transportation authority meeting is called to order.5:32 PMRoll call, please. .[roll call]We have a qorum.Thank you.5:33 PMI'm going to request that we move item --From the closed session. are there any changes from my kreeg colleagues? Any from staff? Not seeing any.Can I get a motion and second?Motion and second.Can we do a vote, please.5:34 PMClerk: [roll call]Yes.Liccardo? thank you.>Thank you.Is 1. 2. Orders of the day 2. Awards and commendation 2. 1. Information item - recognize david lovato, public communication specialist ii, community engagementDavid, I think you are on the conference call with us. Congratulations.Thank you.We appreciate all the hard work. Next is department; marlon pulido, coach operator, cerone5:35 PMCongratulations to marlon. I don't believe he was able to join us. Operations; luoc nguyen, electro-mechanic, light rail vehicle maintenance department; as employees of the congratulations. I don't thinkhe's with us either.Next is second (2nd) quarter of 2021; and jay tyree, transportation planning manager, service planning department, as supervisor of the second (2nd) quarter of 2021. And I believe he is ith us today. I will ask everyone to turn on their cameras so we can take a group photo.5:37 PMI will go ahead. on a count of 3.Thank you so much.Thank you. once again, I just want the thank all of our employees for the second quarter 2021. Thank you for everything you do out there everyday for our service. >> chair, this is elaine. I have a couple other items with their hands up.5:38 PMThank you.We have three public speakers. We can't hear you.Point of rule there. you didn't take public comment on items items. The pdf -is no where to be found on the packet.5:39 PMI don't know if the board members have a comment or not. I don't know if elaine or staff have any comment?Yes, the agenda and the agenda packet has a list of closed session items. I will be happy to forward the link to Mr. Le brand. Thank you.Next speaker, please.Clerk: alex, you May begin speaking when ready?Hey, everyone, this is alex shore. Forgive me, I just can't help it when I hear vta awarding amazing employees who I had a chance to work with and tonight is one of those nights. It's great to call in. Jay tiree is one of those great minds that I have been able to work with and he's great working with the community. And david came with so many ideas and everything he does. Two exemplary employees of theagency. Very lucky to have them working for us and I just wanted to give a shout out to some great people who are part of your very wonderful team.5:41 PMThank you.Next speaker, please.I wanted to check if this is the section for public comment?Next speaker, please.Public speaker: hi, I just want to say yay to the awardees, especially marlon. Great work. He brought a lot of energy, really blazed the path for the ambassador program and that was under jay tireey. He made some major service changes. Great service, you guys. I'm proud o be on your team.5:42 PMThank you.5:43 PMThis is for public comment item 2. 1. You May begin speaking when you are ready.Mr. Bateman.Public speaker: thank you. Thank you to roland who spoke about item 9 e and what we can expect from that item and especially for the closed session meeting today. Thank you for the important process oforders for the day that roland knows how to use very well. Thank you. So thank you.Thank you.That concludes public comment.Mr. Hendricks: before I move on, I would like to thank board member chavez for member of the year. She's so well deserved because she's a tireless community member for the bay area. Congratulations to cindy,great job, not great job, great recognition on the hard work you do all the ime5:44 PMMoving on to item 3. 3. Public comment this portion of the meeting is reserved for persons desiring toaddress the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. The amount of time allocated for this section of the agenda May vary at the chairperson's discretion depending on the number of speakers and length of the agenda. The law does not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under special circumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing.5:45 PMThank you.Clerk: first speaker is trisha. Public speaker: thank you.Can you hear me?Yes, we can.Yes, thank you.Yes, i'm speaking on theThank you. i'm speaking on the idea that people are starting to be charged for the rise on transit. I think that should be left for later because people are still getting rent relief help that it will after covid have to payback all that amount. And then still getting their vaccinations and the pandemic is still going on eventhough we are not getting better. And some of their work has been cut significantly and they are not making as much as they made.5:46 PMThank you very much.Next speaker, please.Clerk: before I go on, I would like to note for the record that we did receive written comment from silicon valley independent living center and the san jose state social work graduate students. Those have been placed on the website and so we will go on to eugene. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker:5:47 PMCan you hear me?Yes.This was eugene bradley, ceo of silicon valley transit users. I agree that regarding vta fare and I was hoping that was an April fools joke but that's not the case and also now there is a new variant of covid and a new surge coming up. Clearly, vta was including the fare collection and this needs to be rethought. I'm speaking more on that.5:48 PMRoland, you May begin. public speaker: thank you, the first thing I would like to do is thank our wonderful vta staff who are here while we are addressing you. The real comment I want to make is to set the tone of the conversation on a couple items we'll be discussing later. By introducing you to a different version of the 5th amendment which is as follows: you have e right to say something. Anything that you do not say canand will be used against you in a court of law. Thank you.5:49 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: blair -- hi, it's important to note that there is a great variant going on in europe right now. Renters need full forgiveness from the first comment of the first person today. I'm going to leave my usual speak to say that we have had months to consider and there is tons of technology with the bart station and there is more that you can do. Please consider working that on what is a better future and a more trusting future. Thank you.5:50 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: hi, this is christine. I'm with the valley, we are still in the middle ofthe pandemic. People are still getting their vaccines and there are people that need assistance with their rents and mortgage. This is not the time to resume collecting fares. Preferably we would like to see vta push this back until the end of jne. This is when the rent moratorium is supposed to end and people have a fighting chance of saving money while still protecting their health5:52 PMNext speaker, please.Public speaker: . I'm speaking for the dscs group and speaking for the group. This is for many services. At this time there is no bus stop or bus route around these offices. These agencies serve the community with many disabilities and the top is making them walk making it difficult to make it on time for appointments.Adding routes is solution to adding retention of services. We sent you more detailed information early today and we hope that you consider adding a bus stop and route near the front of these offices.5:53 PMThank you. I think that was the last part of our public comment.Next item.Intention to adopt an amended resolution of necessity action item - close hearing and adopt an amended resolution of necessity determining that the public interest and necessity require the acquisition of theproperty interests from the property owned by pacific/bowie-el cerrito, a california general partnership, located in san jose, california for the eastridge to bart regional connector: capitol light rail project (ebrc).Property id/assessor's parcel number/owner I wan -- the members will be able to speak. I received letters.They are available on the website. Ron, we'll give the floor to you.5:54 PMThank you, Mr. Chair. I also want to note there is a full memo n the record and from the staff. Before I begin, I would like to provide the board some context, once you decide on this project, there will be projects to proceed. We know this is a sensitive and challenging manner and we are working with property owners to meet the challenges that are fair and reach a voluntary agreement. However, there is a time where we May ask for a solution necessity in order to ensure projects remain on schedule and on budget.From that, I would like to provide the background of the resolution. It's important to understand the full requirements and those are for the property that is being considered, that the public interest and necessity require the project that is under consideration in this case that is part of the regional connector. The second is the project is planned and located with the greatest and most compatible area. 3rd, the property and resolution is necessary for the project and fourth, a just compensation has been made. To provide some content for this connector. This is to add a new station on eastridge road. The project we are discussing tonight be, is in san jose. This is joint by the partnership and has a number of stores,restaurants and other types of retail. The property that we require is that an overhead electric easement which is necessary both for the electrical lines and the sway or potential movement of those lines in the wind in order to relocate transmission lines that are currently on the west side of capital expressway thathave been located for the project to be built. Previously vta made an offer in 2020 and a revised offer March 15, 2021. This graphic illustrates the area and this is the front of the property from the kelly road to the end of the property. This electrical easement is for wires that are approximately 65 eet above ground.This is an easement that does not affect properties in items of the easement on the ground. We wanted to provide a bit more context because we know questions have been raised. This is the shopping enter and safe way and other stores. We want to provide this to show the overhead electrical easement does not affect access to the shopping center. The aerial shows the access to the shopping center and will not be affected by the proposed project. To talk about what has occurred today. The vta members adopted this resolution and there have to be necessary findings in order to adopt this. After the board adopted the resolution of necessity, staff negotiated with the property owners to reduce the amount. And when we went to request the motion for the property, the Judge Found that because of the reduced interest of the property required, we reduced it which was not consistent with the resolution necessity that the Judge Did not grant the motion. Since then, two things have occurred. One is we have remitted our offer and the second thing is that pg & e has made a decision that it needs to remove trees along the closed right-of-way acquisition before the pg & e standards and in this case, it affects 19 trees. Based on this information, pg & e came up with a revised offer and that revised offer we presented, does meet the requirements. As the chair noted, there have been property owner letters and objections submitted and I believe they will speak to those this evening. I have a couple of observations. As you look at the objections that have been raised, there are two categories and along the capital expressway. The challenge with that approach is that that will involve a longer line and more to be installed and will also create conflict and challenging orders and will include properties on the other side of the creek and we believe that approach will create greater harm to the interest than the proposed. And the other types of ccess or use of property, we believe all of those items that are really matters that relate to valuation and relate to the compensation the property owner would be entitled to and therefore, since those are valuations, they would not be considered.6:01 PMHendricks: thank you for the report. I will now open this comment period for five minutes.We have one member of the public who would like to speak. Mr. Mariomarione.6:02 PMF you are speaking, we can't hear you.Public speaker:Can you hear me?Yes.Thank you.I'm her to speak for the property owner. Vta is in a position to front the acquisition for pg & e. I'm not here to question the rail line for the extension nor do I believe that you will change the location for pg & e easement and 3rd, I don't believe you will be able to save the trees that my client wants in the face of what pg & e has said, but, you do have the ability to tell pg & e that certain restrictions that are requested are unreasonable interference with the property and I want to explain this to you. This board is acting as alegislative capacity and as told must make certain findings. My position is pg & e is over reached. When you ook at the findings with the greatest public good with the right of interest, we have the square feet of easement but pg & e does not stop there. It asks for the right to cut and trim trees outside of this e-mail and will not define consent for that right and asks for the property for access and does not define the right.It asks for the right to maintain, replace the power line from the djacent area. This affects in and out burgers drive-thru. It does not define the restrictions it would operate under. It is asking for rights beyond the easement when in fact it has the ability from capital expressway to service the line, to fix the line and to my understanding from what I have been informed, pg & e is not going to construct the new line by going on with the remainder of the shopping is there -- center. It's going to do it through that strip of land.I think that is an unreasonable restrictions and the board has the right to push back on pg & e and save the property owner the problems from the restrictions that would be imposed. Finally in regard to thegovernment code ofer, i'm not asking you tonight to appraise the property for the owner. It's not a matter of issuing an offer based on an appraisal. That appraisal has to have substance. I just told you the appraisal is for 13998 quare feet. A strip approximately 735 feet long by 20 feet wide that contains theoverhead lines of the swail necessary for the lines. But pg & e asks for rights beyond that, the interior of the shopping center and that hasn't been an appraised. I pointed out that the property has been fullyimproved and landscaped and developed for stores for food service on building pads, yet the appraisal is based on raw land sales and those sales, I think are typified by the one sale that I call out to you and gave you an illustration in my letter via stadium parking lot from san jose now a shopping center and now improved with asphalt and practice field. Those are not comps. That is not a substance of an appraisal thegovernment code calls for and that is not before you. I asked you to challenge the restrictions and this board does not understand what the pg & e is requesting but o consider the points I have made and i'mavailable for any questions you May have.6:07 PMThank you. there is another property owner that wishes to speak.Natalie?Great.Can you hear me?Yes.I'm natalie, I over see 17 stores for safe way. Safe way asks that you carefully refer to our letter especially when it comes to parking lots and deliveries and our concern is blocking the parking lots and obstructing the pathway.6:08 PMCan you restart?Yes, the unintended consequences of the proposed easement are blocking safe way deliveries and affecting the access to the shopping is there. As drafted, safe way and the tenants of this shopping center are collateral for the proposed easement. While anyone can't understand why closing a grocery store and pharmacy, contrary to that, the construction work under the proposed easement would put the operation of safe way at risk and staff cannot secure that it will not cause any impacts. Safe way concerns are serious and require serious consideration. Thank you.6:09 PMThank you very much. I think those are all the property owners addressing us on this item. We'll have public comment in just a moment. Before we go to that, are there any questions from my colleagues?Director chavez?6:10 PMThank you. I would like to get feedback on the question?Yes, based on the comments, I will say this, the nature of the easements and comments are standard in pg & e easements and they are very familiar to those easements. The reason that pg & e rights this easements in this manner because of the projects that May be in operation long-term that May see a need in the future. I appreciate the concern that raises for a number of folks. I think part of the challenge that we have as vta, is we could not compel pg & e to relocate its lines. While we are in a position to retransmission the lines for the project, we have to provide pg & e with the rights that determine this to beproperly constructed as they are located for the lines.6:11 PMVta and pg & e have an agreement for removal of the rights. Otherwise they can come back. So that's one.Two, in regard rights to access areas outside of the easement, it's not unlimited access, it's reasonable access and it's important for them to get on because of an emergency. For example, if a pole or line camedown, one of the electrical lines come down, they need to be able to access that. That is why. It's not unbounded access, it's reasonable access. The other issue raised had to do with the offer and our boardchanged the easement language. I will say that the government code offer made was the fair market value that was based oh on an appraising required by a licensed appraiser. We are not appraisers. We have to rely on the appraiser by the government code. We have an appraisal and made an offer on the lastappraised amount and complied with the government code section. That's in regard to the presentation and in regards to the comments regarding the impeding of access and impasse to parking, there is nothingwith the connection with the construction or the take because it's an aerial and we are not moving any parking spaces and there is no impedement of access and it's not this one. Thank you you.6:13 PMI wanted to state that for the record.6:14 PMThank you, evelyn. I appreciate that. The only other question is from a time perspective, when were the impacted properties notified of this hearing?Statutorially, they are required to have 15 days notice.Thank you.Mayor liccardo?Can I ask the presenter to speak to the question of how exactly will this impact their operations. I'm trying to understand that better?6:15 PMChair hendricks: I think we have to get staff to have them raise their hand to speak.Natalie with safe way.Yes, I have a question of how this will affect safe way, because of this operation is aerial, it won't be affected on the ground. I want to understand your perspective?I very much appreciate that because I was jumping in my seat here trying to explain. So thank you for asking the question. If it's possible for staff to put the aerial on, one of the drawings. That works there.6:16 PMLet's start with safe way deliveries where it's in the back of the center and this yellow arrow shows in drawing as ingres and egress there. If that driveway, the area of the driveway that falls within theeasement, because the easement as drafted allows pg & e and there are no parameters around theseconstruction access, temporary access, around permanent access. Yes, the lines are in the air but they are relocating two of the lines and the easement grants them the right to access that area not only of aneasement but an undefined adjacent area, part of which is an in and out drive-thru and the chipotle and starbucks shops to the north. You see the parking spots there and the drive aisle and the in and out drive-thru which is critical to their operation. As I noted in my public comment, as drafted, there is not enoughcalculate here and the unintended consequences of that undefined broad access allow pg & e to be able to close off that area of the easement and undefined adjacent areas which would directly impact safe wayshops and in and out burger. At the moment that driveway is shutdown, there is no where I can get my trucks around it. It's a death wish.6:18 PMFundamentally you are concerned about closure of capital by pg & e and we don't understand the exact amount but they could do and they have a right to do it, is that your concern?That's correct. our recent experience with pg & e. Have had four grocery stores under construction in thelast year including west park in san jose which were directly impacted, delayed by pg & e. Market park on berryessa has been delayed by pg & e. Pg & e as all agencies, all companies, all of us have been seriouslyimpacted this past year and of course pg & e has has its issues in the years prior to that. So to be told, just trust us, it's reasonable access. I'm sorry, I cannot trust that loose language.6:19 PMThank you for your response. I guess the question for staff, where we can add some definition to the easement to address the concerns of safe way. Let me just add as my background concern to the question.I think we've all read plenty about the retail apocalypse for the last year or two and communities like in san jose where it's been so hard and I don't want to make it harder. I'm wondering if there is a way to make it right for that easement?6:20 PMTo answer to your concern, we are aware of the concerns raised and we have been negotiating with pg & e on a number of aspects to mitigate some of these impacts and we've gotten to a point where pg & e will not agree to that and we do not have the bility to change those conditions which is why we are here this evening. I would just say the terms of the reasonable standard I think it is important and does hold pg & e liable for this account in light they are not reasonable in their actions and there are any emergencies that can happen. The capital can shutdown and cut down operations today. It's a little challenging when you talk about how things can operate but somehow to address every possible contingency or emergency thatmight arise from whatever situation.6:21 PMCan I just ask of you ron or evelyn. I appreciate you have to land the plane at some point. Is this a critical path in the next 30 days. Obviously we have a board full of elected officials who have interactions with pg & e. I personally wouldn't want to place my own small business or large business in the hands of hoping that pg & e will be reasonable about assessing my need for access from capital expressway, but is it possible this could be considered in 30 days when we have one chance for their to be some outreach to seeif there would be a willingness for them to come up with some reasonable accommodations.6:22 PMGo ahead, eelyn.Real briefly, we adopted one very similar and with broader language with regards to rights for pg & e and during that period of time, we have been negotiating with the property owner and pg & e. But we will keep trying. Ron will provide more information.6:23 PMYes, we will meet this month. with this critical path, this property acquisition is preventing this project fromoccurring. So any delay to this action would be a one for one day delay for this region.This is evelyn again. I do want to add to the extent that we can come to an agreement regarding the possession of the property, vta would have to go back into court to seek in order for prejudgment and the notice period for that is 90 days.6:24 PMI appreciate pg & e has done what they can and I got a text from a colleague that says pg & e generally responds. I wonder if there is an opportunity for us to push this ourselves. Ken, you are saying this canstart this summer and if there is a May approval would that be too late?No. the contractor in this case, pg & e, is eady to begin construction as soon as we give them the property, and so they are ready and postured to begin the work in april.Okay.6:25 PMHowever, they will not advertise for construction until we hand them the property. We can't hand them the property until we have the order and possession. Without the project, we can't begin. They are scheduled to begin and waiting for us to turnover the property rights to them.Okay.If I can ask ken to maybe just elaborate on one more point and I say this based on other projects and the risk that based on additional delay that May affect the time when pg & e can start and how much contingency we have in terms of the completion of the construction based on the delayed start. I ask that because we do have a hard deadline for the money to be spent on utility location by the next month.6:26 PMRight.Can I share my screen?Right.Yes, there is an impact to not beginning the work. Does a month make us not able to make that deadline, might not be, however, it is more critical, much more critical as ron was suggesting as a delay to or change in the alignment would be catastrophic to the schedule. There would be no way that we could make any kind of timeframe commitment ith a different alignment. Hat is not possible. I'm sharing my screen.6:27 PMKen, i'm not asking for a change in the alignment.Understood.A quick slide. one is the overall alignment. In context to pg & e's world, we are taking the yellow line to the blue line. That is the end of the alignment. What they have done is improve the alignment. If we have tried to do something different like go around the property or so the other alignment, it is significantly different.It's entirely different and not only does it take more time, it introduces much more polls, more anglepoints, much more risk for hem and it's something that would be very very challenging as far as any new alignment. Regarding the safe way property, in and out burger are noted on this graphic. Whenever pg & edoes their work, they are focused on the ole area. Their work doesn't primarily gravitate mid-pole, but they do need to protect the safe and do need to make sure it's safe. When they are talking about access toareas, they are talking about safety activities that need to be respected because it's a high voltage line. We are not talking about occupying the space for a long period of time of time. The same constraints over kellyroad. The pg & e's their same concern applies to kelly road as far as the access road. So pg & e is effective in working in ways that much of their work focus on the poles while still allowing access and we are stillcrossing along the road in space and access. It isn't as if the access road isn't at a pole and we are confident that pg & e is able to perform this work in a way that they will use their access rights for access and not for long-term or certainly not for any kind of permanent impact. Impact.6:30 PMThank you.Thank you and I think we are back to member chavez.Director chavez: I think we might have public comment.We do.I will hold my thoughts until after public comment.Chair hendricks.. i'm not seeing any other comments from my colleagues. Now wilthe public will be able toaddress the meeting with their comments.Roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: the first thing I would like to say if there these projects, construction - would not be allowed to start because you have not secured funding.No. 1. And part no. 2, it's going to be the energy gap center which is where they are going to underground the cable and I don't know why it's not being done here. Lastly, when you go about designing theseprojects, all ould be addressed at the conceptual level. Not now when it's too late and you are about to start construction.6:31 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: blair bateman. I was asking before the board to speak on this. It seems there is a lack of confidence in pg & e's actions over the past few years and I just simply wanted tooffer with the tree cutting issues for this item, I hope we don't go overboard in those worries. I understand they can be very important worries, but at the same time, the past few years, pg & e has had a majorresponsibility with other, I don't know, ways of working that did not involve, does not have to include the ideas of tree cutting and brush clearance. As important as that is, that is somewhat hyped and times and we need to avoid that if we can and if it applies to this issue, I hope it can help.6:33 PMChair hendricks: thank you. that was the last part of the public comments. Back to director chavez?Yes, I would like to ask evelyn a question and depending on that, I will ask for a motion. Evelyn, you made it a point about this easement language that ms. Mate and is concerning is more refined than the previous items as it relates to pg & e and handling on this alignment. Can you speak more about that?Correct. the easement on which this board adopted a recent resolution included telecommunication rights that were removed from that. It included you you and that's the main aspect and the other one was the trees that had to be put down and we had to rean appraise the property again and make an offer on that.Otherwise, yes, this has been negotiated and further refined. I have a chart with all of those refinements, but the main one is the removal of certain rights that were in there previously that we took out.6:34 PMJust the thing that I might say to my colleagues is that we don't want to miss this summer and every month you add or two months is a challenge and I will say that I do feel for the applicants, the property owners and their representatives because I do find pg & e very challenging to deal with. In this instance I feel the staff moved very udiciously and I really appreciate ken's math that just highlighted the areas that are really going to be the focus for the areas with pg & e and at this time I would like to make a motion to adopt the resolution of necessity.6:35 PMMember chavez, in your motion, can you say that we are going to close the hearing and we are going to adopt the amended resolution of necessity for one property and can you speak at least to one of theproperty id's?6:36 PMThank you. I move that we close the public hearing and implement the necessity that is required for this implementation of the light rail project action item - close hearing and adopt an amended resolution ofnecessity determining that the public interest and necessity require the acquisition of the property interests from the property owned by pacific/bowie-el cerrito, a california6:37 PMIf any any further discussion? a vote, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passed.Thank you.Now we are moving on to our for items 5. 1. Rts. - e reports 5. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) good evening, chair hendricks, members of the board. The committee met March 10, 2021. The cac reviewed this item on tonight's board agenda to separate the criteria into twotracks. We look forward to review the criteria at our next meeting. The cac received the transit impact report and approved the measure b 2021 highway change category and we discussed the bart and regional to eastridge to bart project and received the high transit corridor study. Lastly, I wanted to inform you that our independent auditor is working on the fiscal year 2020 and we expect to get an update from them at the cac cwc redwood meeting monday, April 4, 2021 at 4 p. M. . Thank you. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:40 PMNext item. (swaminathan) 5. 2. Policy advisory committee (pac) chairperson's report.Thank you, chair. the committee approved the report and modifications and discussed the change in fundsacross the county and requested a tool by sales tax by the city and percentage of highway program allocations that have been approved for projects in san jose. To date approximately 55% of measure b highway allocation program funds to highways and approved a semi annual report ending December 31, 2020. We recommend the board approve the measure b tenure program and biennial principles and direct staff to develop funding allocations for the program based funding categories based on those principles.Formally requested a tool to show the tax by city and prepare all tax comments into recommendation is and we received an pdate on the transit study and discussed outreach to date and prioritization and for court orders and the central bike ways and asked for a study and discussed data riven necessityinformation for the parks and information related to caltrain. Lastly, we received the 2021 second quarter transit operations report and valley transportation authority transportation plan and fiscal year 2020 annual transportation systems monitoring program report. No pun intend, but it was a packed meeting.Next report will be next month.6:42 PMThank you.Item 5.3. the report is in the packet I would like to ask if r. Peralez would like to make a comment?6:43 PMNo. our report is also in the packet. Thank you for that. Next is 5. 4 policy advisory board report is on packet, and 5. 5. Oversight committee chairperson report rosa herrera is here to provide a report.Good evening, board chair hendricks and vta board members and thank you for his opportunity to update the board and the community on the valuable work being performed by the 2016 measure b oversightcommittee. I see many familiar faces here tonight and recall meeting with you members on the vta board.For your convenience, I have provided a more detailed version of this report but would like to highlight a few of the key elements and options by the committee. If first is the background on committee in process.As you know the measure b ballot required a membership oversight committee to make sure the funds are being expended according to the program. Established to fulfill the responsibilities and we have positions currently filled. With the appointment of the 7th position on your consent agenda 6. 9 tonight. One meeting in our initial training was held before we went into a two year hiatus. Comparing measure b is sometimes helpful to understand the differences of the scopes of this measure. 2000 measure a has a watch dog committee and has a different and specific responsibilities that reflect the different focuses of the measure. 2000 measure a is it involves all of those from the county and why we spend a good deal of time on the website. I'm very aware of the time they spend on this and their responsibilities and they werecommitted to stay and keep to their responsibilities and willing to provide ontext on the information. That said, the primary reason i'm here tonight is to discuss the annual audit. The auditor team recentlycompleted fiscal year 17, 18 and 2019/2020 and were compiled during the lawsuit. Both audits periods were reasonable in assurance that the moneys spent were only on the classified expenses. In may, it willconduct a public hearing and for the two periods. The committees conclusion on whether measure brevenues were spent in accordance to the ballot and to maximize the conversation of that message to the community. Finally, it's performing an important function given that we are the friends and neighbors ofthe county residents and independent of vta, it is very important that we issue our 3 report that 2016 measure b funds are spent according to the measure. We take this measure seriously. Knew thank you.This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:47 PMThank you for your report. do we need to check for public speakers?Yes, chair.Let's go ahead with public speakers.Thank you, chair. we have one public speaker. Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, there needs to be public comment after great committee reports. Yeah, I wanted to thank council person peralez for his cmpp committee summary of the bike highway system. You started a goodprogram it sounds like in north san jose. Is there a way to bring that program into south san jose and a reminder when jenny bruins in her last days, her an eugene bradley would talk about a better equity for bike paths and that was a harsh debate a year ago and how do we bring that bike path equity to san jose.It's a real important concept that I hope that we can work on. I want to talk about vision zero ideas on this coming up on the consent items, thank yu.6:49 PMThank you. I think that was the last public speaker. I will close the public speaker section. That takes us to the consent calendar. Item 6. 6 through 6. 16. Members wishing to speak to the consent agenda or pull items or add items to the consent agenda. I'm not seeing of my colleagues hands. Are there any abstentions or recusals.Director chavez: I would move we approve the consent calendar. Calendar.6:50 PMIs there a second?Second, mntano.Okay.I would like to mention that we received public comment in regard to item 6. 6 for the 2016 measure b highway interchange program category. First person, roland. Public speaker: hi, and thank you, madam chair. I would like to speak to the budget item and the 1. 7 million. I'm warning you that your silence of the matter will implicate you after the fact. 6. 9, i'm objecting to Mr. Charter's appointment and currently is imposing and essential trip o the board. Thank you. Public speaker: thank you. Speaking to item 6. 6 and 6. 7 in the transportation report. The important of vision zero is important for all this. Why not make t a shared process so we are not being pounded and we can make it a process of community and sustainability and growth by open public policy ideas that are so important function of vision zero and needs to be a part of this surveillance racing on the east side, invite - them especially with the policy ideas.6:52 PMPublic speaker: hi, everybody. This is eugene again. I would like to comment on 6. 1 on how caltrain and vta work together to promote public trend for that arena since 1973. Thank you.6:53 PMChair hendricks.. I think that was our last public speaker. Does staff want to respond to comments that were made?Chair, I do. in regard to what Mr. Lebron stated about he bart project. It's a general term. We use evx as the silicon valley transportation project and hat same project description is captured in the full fundinggrant agreement that was executed with vta and that project includes specific elements and vta's required to report expenses related to those specific elements in a manner that is largely defined by the fta. Those expenses that Mr. Lebron referred to is the $3. 3 billion number. The other cost elements that he refers to are part of the larger what we refer to the svrt program which include various projects that have their own environmental document. I wanted to be sure that was clarified.6:55 PMThank you.Chair hendricks: thank you. seeing no other public comment,Roll call, please.6:56 PMClerk: [roll call] motion passed. Thank you.This takes us to the regular agenda. The first item is 7. 1. Svrt program update 7. 1. Information item - receive silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. (verbal report) (salpeas)Yes, thank you, chair. I will be very brief. We have a meeting next week. With the top dot officials and fta and we have welcoming support. Should you need further information, they will fill you in i'm sure. And according to the reports that will be available sometime mid-may. Our work is progressing as we planned it. I think in the next couple months we will come with staff will come before you for some more activities which we need to get on to be on schedule. The bart and vta, the team is working very well and we arealmost 90% of completion of all the requirements which as we know will be part of the meetingdocuments. And e are progressing with a reparation of our bill with request for proposal. We are staying good on our schedule and received the systems contract that are two weeks out. We are expected to come back in May the 4, to receive the responses from them. We are going o work from that point on to august September and get out the added fee. And hopefully next year in january, we should have in front of you aselection and award. The contract which is 56% of our contract, we received the responses throughout rfq.I'm not part of the procedural and I can't tell you how many we received, but we have a robustcompetition which has been more than three or four proposals. That's great news. We are working now to analyze this and we hope to have the added three prepared to go on the street to the preselected considers. We are going to know that ometime the second week of may. And we are going to do that in july. In the santa clara station as progressed and the station now could be there next month at the end of may. Nothing new here. Just as we are progressing as I have told you two new agreements areprogressing and should receive a report by the end of may. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:00 PMWe'll go to public comment first.We have two speakers. roland, you May begin. Public speaker: thank you for introducing you to the siliconvalley. I'm looking at the report and on page 9 is something that May be of interest to you. On these jobestimates and what transfers vta funds and to increase by $202 million from 6. 39 to 6. 9$6. 941 million.He failed to communicate this to you before.7:01 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Hi, I wanted to offer with phase 1 bart issues that there is often ig bellies of those places and they have sometimes some controversial apps which need a review in a short amount of time period.7:03 PMChair hendricks.. I see no more public speakers. Do my colleagues have any questions? Questions?The project consulting, did they come to anything that was not to their satisfaction?They found the report with the federal transportation administration and every month they receive a report. We are not aware of anything unusual or inappropriate or anything out of line. Everything is to beexpected. Expected.7:04 PMSo we are on target and on budget?Yes. we are on budget and on schedule and trying to meet the requirements to get us to start the construction maybe next year, we hope.Okay, great, thank you. >> we have other questions?Thank you. I would like to thank you for connecting us with the highest level of transportation and they always do a great job and I have to tell you we are very pleased with the results and they are very aware of our project and committed to working with us until successfully completed. Thank you, chair.7:05 PMI will go back again and checking one last time for my colleagues for any questions. I'm not seeing any and this is an informational item. Next item.Board of directors 7. 2. Action item - 1) approve the 2016 measure b 10-year program and biennial budget principles; and 2) direct staff to apply the principles and develop funding allocations for the formula-based program categories for the 2016 measure b fy 2022 and fy 2023 biennial budget. Kathleen kelly will provide the report.Thank you, chair. and good evening board members. I'm on my phone tonight. I hope everything goes okay. The action item is before you and we have brought back twice since then as information items.Tonight we are requesting action on the first set of recommendations which is to adopt the principals of thedevelopment of the 2016 measure b biennial program. Based on the program meeting in march, werequested a setback and financial report of the adoption program. We were trying to bite off too much at one time. Today we will be focusing on the proposed principles which are noted here and will still apply to all program categories. The reason we decided to remove the principles and the ideas was to include them in this program. We divided the program into two groups to allocate the money to two groups. On the left side is the formula ased program which include roads, bike and ped and road operations. The right side is the second group and you can see the programs included there. It's important to keep the program frame works in mind to keep with the principles. As a result of the most recent board 3 recommendationsrecommendations, we have the principles to guide you this evening. I would like to briefly like to go over each principle and highlight the recommendations from the committee. To track the recommended changes from the committee, we used color coding and italics in red and recommendations from the anf committee are bolded and in green. I apologize or people with colorblindness because I know it May be difficult to seethe colors but I hope the font will help. There is clarifying language for each principle in the memo. Thefirst principle states that most projects must comply with the ballot measure that were added for the suggestion of board members. The next principles are required that some level of investment to each of the program categories throughout the ten year program and recommended changing the word during to throughout to avoid any suggestion that funding would be included for a program in the final year of the ten year program. The last principle on this page include the programs on the page. This principal directfunding for these programs be allocated on an annual basis using the ratios and percentages included in the ballot measure. For instance since the language of measure b directed that 90% of program tax revenues for allocation for streets and roads, this principles states that when the ten year measure bprogram is approved shows the estimated percent for tax revenues for allocation of roads and ten year rogram including each year of the biennial budget. Adoption of this principal allows local jurisdictions to do their own budget planning knowing this funding will be available on a 3 consistent basis. This next principle reference to all the programs on the right side of that earlier slide. As you can see he standing boardcommittee's recommended test. The intent of this principal states that unlike the programs that reach the ratio each year, the products of this category will be prioritized on specific prioritization and processescriteria and we are still under the processes criteria and that report will be brought to the board next month. The slide shown here is one shown earlier and slightly different from the language in the mmo. We tried to reflect the language recommended by committees and realize today that we have not been able to do that as accurately as we hoped. We hope to get a report from the committees again. The next is to have a report available and you can think f measure b as a mortgage -- on your house. And taking out amortgage and debt over the house now and over the life f the measure. The price here is shown by the anf committee and the agency explicitly considered opportunities for measure b funded projects when outsidefunding is available to leverage. The next few slides are shown here tonight. We are asking that you approve these principals and if approved, one is highlighted for one and the other programs. Based on approval of the programs related to formula funded program will allocate to local streets and roads andtransit operations programs and recommend allocations for fiscal year 22 and 23 to be advisory and standing committees and return to the board in May for approval of those allocations. Those approved allocations will be approved for the biennial board. Next slide. This slideshows what happens to the need capacity based projects as staff needed more time to develop the criteria as to be prioritized and as a result we expect to bring the entire criteria to the committee in the next weeks and this will be different from the memo that I just mentioned. Once the board approved the criteria and develop allocations for the biennial budget and bring those to the board later this summer. Although that will delay by a few months any allocation to the capacity needs for programs, we don't anticipate that will delay any projects because there are unset funds available for prior allocations. Finally later this summer, staff will also present a fullrecommended ten year measure b program to the board that includes the allocations to the formula based programs as well as the new capacity based programs. The ten year program will include the first two years as well as the allocations for the out years. Revenues and proposed plan obligation are for the two years during the biennial project and should be adjusted on a regular basis based on economic conditions and forecast and allocation plans are also adjusted to meet schedule and cost changes. In addition, to the board and staff committees, staff presented this to staff cmmittees, advisory committees and policy advisory committees in the past month and all recommended this to be set for approval. We just receivedthe requested sales tax data from our consult yesterday. We were unable to include the information with tonight's packet. However, we will make that information available as soon as we have a chance to review it. At several committees, both advisory and board standing committees, we received many comments and questions about the measure b ballot language regard debit financing specifically how debit financing is calculated. We included attachment b in the packet to show actual language in the ballot which mandatesthat debt service along with mandated cost are set to the top before the revenues are calculated and shown how this could work including how revenues are calculated for each of the program categories. Tosum up tonight's item is to approve what I articulated and we will bring this before you in may, and second, approval of the prioritization projects of the project selection criteria for the need capacity basedprograms. Thank you for your attention and i'm available for staff comments and questions.7:16 PMChair hendricks: thank you. I will go to public comment.Yes, chair, before we go to public, I would like to note for the record that we did receive public comment from silicon valley leadership group for their support of this program. The first two speakers, jason baker and blair.7:17 PMPublic speaker: thank you, my name is jason baker. I would like to express our support for the language and principals that include a 25% cap program for tax revenues and works towards a fair allocation over the life of the measure. We would like to also encourage the board to explicitly prioritize projects with as much outside funding to make measure b dollars go further to introduce all fees and all projects. This project has been able to attract federal dollars to the region and we should keep that up. And forprioritization, ridership is loan is not the right measurement. This helps induce density and walkabledevelopment. Thank you all for your service, to your cities and your region.7:18 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hi, thank you. Blair beak man. To conclude on the previous item, no one worked and hid and from that, those often create a rational thinking and I was really impressed with how you 3 handled yourself with the bart nuria and everyone did such a - great job in the last year to this transient oriented purpose7:20 PMMy question was how does that relate to the other categories?My understanding is that it doesn't change any of the principles. It's there as recognition to highlight theexample leverage funds when they are available.I just had a discussion with my team if it's actually possible to codify that including in the principle subject to the constraints from the other.If you are interested in including that, that would be great.7:21 PMNext member, simitian.Thank you. I would move the one item in the language and now I have two. With only two minor clarifying amendments to the recommended language and on page 6, where it says transparently consider opportunities from external fundors, I believe that council member has suggested that we add the language to the other rinciples which is what is indicated on the staff report to page 4. I offered the staff'sminor clarification on the amendment and if I can ask staff to put it up on the screen. Thank you very much. Just to add here as well that it should indicate that 23. 81% ratio of program tax revenues for the bart project because that is in fact the number in our measure b ballot language and for whatever reason the ratio didn't get included. It's the only one of the programs that doesn't have a ratio reference in the principle. It should be included. Move recommendation of the staff with the addition of ms. Coga and 23.1% ratio for bart to be included in the item on page 5.7:22 PMChair hendricks.. before I ask for a second, does your motion also include to apply the principal of the allocation for the 2016 measure b fiscal 2022 and 2023 biennial budget?7:23 PMYes, and I won't repeat all that.Yes, I just read the script in front of me. I will go to member montano.I have a question for the cfo.Before we go to questions, can we get a second first?Second.Member montano.For the report, since we don't have the sales tax revenues, can you give me an estimate of what we will bereceiving?Yes, the request was to have that sales tax revenues broken down by each of the cities and we had to work with the consultant. We don't actually have this broken down by cities but we have a way of gettingthat. We will have that next week.7:24 PMPart of that request, can it be as part of an adaptable easily consumable information.Yes, we are working with a pie chart to see if that is helpful. We just got the raw data yesterday and we are trying to figure out how it's best to portray that.7:25 PMI know that one of the premises mandates from the language is in order to ease congestion, and to the bridge and the program, is that a community based program?Right, a community based program.Do you know what that will start, the construction for the widening of the calaveras bridge to highway 237?7:26 PMCasey or gene can answer thatI'm afraid I don't know.The reason I ask because there is congestion from the 680 and across to calaveras. You can get back to me. Example of the analyzed criteria and the definition of the project, eir and where it fits. I don't know the status of all that, but that's an example of those things and it's through that process here you get thatanswer to the other side how much money is allocated and where that is coming from.I just wanted to keep it on the radar since I represent the citizens in that city. Thank you.Thank you.Next, I believe we have member paul.7:27 PMThank you, chair. I have a request for a language modification on one of the descriptor. I'm not sking for alanguage change on heading which is use financial tools to making projects available to subject to ready capacity. In the description, I would like to reflect more that the board is 3 using discretion to decide wherethe financing is applied. I understand the measure of the language has particular language with regard to the implementation and the calculation of the method of application, but I would like to more clear that the board has e it- discretion and is exercising that discretion with regard to whether that application is made.So, my proposed language change as a friendly amendment for this description, let me first read how this description reads right now.7:28 PMCan staff go to that page?It's in the report on page 4 of 6, I believe that's what you are referring to.That's correct. the packet that i'm looking at is page 388. For this page. But that reads. . If anticipated the2016 measure b allocation needs in a biennial budget surpass the revenues financing tools will be used to fund the project within the biennial budget. I would like to propose the change in the first sentence to strike the word tools and put the word considered instead of used. So that the sentence would then read, 'if anticipated 2016 measure b allocation needs in the biennial surpassed projected revenues, financing would be considered for the projects within that biennial budget. The second description reads' the specific financials will be approved by the vta board of directors at the time. I believe the sentence indicates the board would consider approval for the financing tool. I would like to ask that this be changed to state the financial tool will be considered for approval by the time the funds are actually needed. I think that's more of a reflective intent in the description and that is more of a description in the proposed amendment.7:30 PMCan I ask staff for comments to consider the motion and consider this.The second sentence is to say that even if the funding is included, say you have a ten year plan and it assumes financing because you need to have additional funding, the revenues don't cover the expenses.The intent is to say that even with that, when actual financing needs to be done, when a project is going toconstruction and at that point the financing needs to be done, that the board will approve that financing tool and it could be different depending on what the market is and how we decide to leverage that. So that's the intended difference between the two sentences. I don't know if that changes yourrecommendation. I want to capture the idea that he board is considering your approval for what is there. I understand the financing tool is the item that is being considered here, but I think that this language makes it seem too much like whatever financing tool is selected will be approved by the board of directors.7:31 PMI see, as it must be approved. I understand.I would like to just make it clear that it's a discretionary decision by making it instead of will be approved, will be considered for approval by the vta board of directors. So I think the mechanism is the same in what you are describing is the same as what i'm amenable to, but just to kind of clarify that language to make sure that the vta board still has that discretion to consider it as well as to approve it. If that's agreeable. I believe we are on the same page there.7:32 PMThe board always has discretion on whether or not to approve things. I understand your distinction.Right, wonderful. honestly without verbiage, I would be okay since you are recorded as saying that, but to clarify if that language djustment would be accepted by the mover, I would appreciate it as well as second it.Let's go to the maker to see what his thoughts are.This is joe,Can you hear me?I can hear you.7:33 PMThanks.In an effort just to keep these relatively short, what if we said use financing tools and i'm looking at the existing sentence. Use financing tools if approved by the vta board of directors, to make funding available when projects are ready. It's very clear in one sentence that it's a matter of subject to the approval of thevta board of directors. Are you contemplating, supervisor simitian, keeping that language at the end on thefinancial information available on the bullet point item?Yes. the sentence would be exactly what would be on page 6 on the bullet point that you referenced, but I think short and sweet, I take your point and we agree with it. We are on the same place. Use financing tools, if approved by vta board of directors, and the rest of it stands to make funding available when projects are ready subject to available funding nd financing. That's a call the 3 board has to ake rather than say it shall happen.7:34 PMThat's right. I understand your point. I want to make sure that other qualifier was still there in your suggestion. In my reaction to that is I think your suggestion actually captures more clearly and it's in the point itself of what I was trying to achieve by some tweaks to the language of the description. I'm actually better to that than what I was suggest, so absolutely.I think i'm hearing the friendly amendment is the language that member simitian just spoke?I will modify if we want to make modification of the friendly amendment to adopt member simitian's proposed language as my friendly amendment. But I believe that member simitian has the discretion to make changes to the proposal as well.7:35 PMChair hendricks.. can you make recommendations on the part of the clarity of the language that you were just discussing.The first bullet point on page 6 of the staff's powerpoint would now read use financing tools, subject to approval by the vta board of directors, to make funding available when projects are ready, subject toavailable financing capacity. So I am adding 9 words, subject to approval by vta board of directors as a parenthetical phrase o make the point that member paul has raised which I agree with.7:36 PMDoes the seconder of the motion okay it?I would like to say thanks to member paul for raising this. It's not only important for this set of principles, but I think it's really consistent with the whole spirit of the governing body reforms that the board hastaken on and I would just like to ncourage staff to going forward have that sensitivity throughout this process to be clear that the approvals of the board are not virtually stipulated or even implied butdiscretionary.Thank you.I think we've got clarity on what the motion is for what's going on. Do my colleagues have any thoughts, comments or questions? i'm seeing none. So I think it will be time for elaine to call the roll.7:37 PMJust to make sure I got this right. The notice for the changes of the criteria, first would be on slide no. 5, to add 23. 81% there, second would be on the first bullet and slide no. 6, as stated by member simitian,and the 3rd changes from the second bullet slide no. 6. Did I get that correctly, board member simitian?That's correct.All right. thank you very much.7:38 PMPlease, elaine, before you proceed, can I ask a question, Mr. Chair?I was going to call on you, but go ahead.I'm trying to understand the 23. 8% as first I heard of it. I want to be sure I understand from staff's perspective, we are hopefully within the next 120 days or perhaps immediately thereafter hoping to receive a full funding grant agreement from the fta somewhere on the order of $1. 7 billion. And with an I want to understand if they will perceive a 23. 8 odd percent constraint, to o constrain us within the next ten years to make it in feasible to finance the project as has long been planned with expectations, in other words, I think we have recognized that it's likely that most or all of the bart project funding would be front oaded unless we were to incur a lot of financing costs buyback loading it. So my question is, bypassingsomething like this, does this tie our hands in ways that will make us less competitive with the fta. I guess that is a question for keeping us involved in that process.7:39 PMDoes staff have a response to this?7:40 PMI can take a stab at it. our expectations of the feds is 5%.It's my understanding that the percentages divided based on the most recent sales tax calculations are extremely close to what we are looking at. So that's probably the best answer I can get. It's very tough tosay you can read the fta's mind, but i'm cautiously optimistic. I would refer to catherine to speak on the up level of the sales tax projection.I will say --7:41 PMI'm sorry kathleen. i'm not really looking for the sales tax projections that e've got. I'm looking for the fta -- and the opportunity to bring $1. 7 billion from the federal government into this county.Hat I don't have the comment on and I will leave that with what jim said.Right. I just need to understand if Mr. Takis is saying that everyone's understanding has been 25% anduntil 45 minutes ago, if we were to jump into this number, we would be setting back our opportunity for the largest federal investment in any infrastructure project in our valley's history.7:42 PMMr. Chair, May I respond?I'm actually looking for staff's response, joe.Chair hendricks: you are in line, joe, so we'll get to you where you are at.We had some discussions like these back in October and November when there were some conversations oing on around measure b and so on and we didn't get a very favorable reaction. If we now have to change the 25% to 3. 8, I don't know how they are going to react but we created more problems for ourselves. If we can figure out a way to stay with what I believe is submitted within our application, I think it's betterfor all of us. That's my thinking.7:43 PMYeah, chair, I would be prepared to support something that has the original 25% which is what the voters voted on as well as what we all agreed to, and at least until 45 minutes ago, I understood that to be what the constraint would be. I understand the 23. 8% that would be the expected ratios based on the expected revenues on the expected $3. 3 billion. The problem is we are dealing with federal government, that is risk averse in all construction projects with funding and I don't think we should be playing this game in the 11th hour of this effort. We have been at this for 21 years and we have a very unique opportunity now thatMay not emerge for a very long time again. So i'm not prepared to support this under the current language. I'm certainly open to alternatives and i'm prepared to make a substitute tion. I would like to hear from my colleagues before I do so.7:44 PMMr. Chair, if I can comment because the document was done before I got here, but I have been reminded that is the amount that is in there so this could be considered a material change to that document.Okay, thank you. we are going to member chavez and member simitian.Director chavez: thank yu. I want to ask staff another question and really understand better the implications on the way you've looked at the budget principles and overall the process that you laid out. If we are given a percentage below 25% to this particular project at this point in time, what are theimplications of that relative to the way the staff is planning from here forward?7:45 PMThank you. what I can say is we under the lower of the percentage which is taking the raw numbers and the cap that was put in. So I can't say how that would play outgoing forward.You are using this as a tool. staff is going to be using this as a tool to bring information back to us, to bring strategies back to us, to bring funding strategies, all of that.7:46 PMRight.As we have been moving forward and I know that the language says it will be capped at a maximum of 25%, and from my perspective, that meant 25% unless we don't need the 25%. I know everybody is ooking at it differently, ut when you are talking about a multimillion dollar project, 23. 8 or 25, there is a difference there, and so, my question is for planning purposes in terms of the way you all will do your work, does it move the, in your minds, does that move maximum, the cap from 25%, essentially move it down to 23. 8?I think it would and what I can say is when we did the scenario back in January before rog left and that was what we considered a stress test looking at putting in a lot of projects in the early ten years of themeasure and were able to show that we can still fund bart and it was under the 25%, it was under 24%. I don't remember exactly what it was if it were constrained at 23. 8%, it would be more difficult, obviously.7:47 PMYeah, just for my colleagues, what i'm concerned about is fundamentally changing a metric that I think will have a significant impact for certain on this project, nd so i'm uncomfortable with that. I think the other two issues that were raised as part of the motion I don't have concerns about, but I do have a concern about this change because I both think it is substantial and if the changes are planning procedures and puts a new cap because we have a cap in the ballot measure itself. I can't support that. Thank you.7:48 PMChair hendricks.. next is member simitian.Thank you. colleagues, this is a little bit complicated and catherine, to your counsel. I want to be clear that we are not proposing any change to the measure b. That's not what this does. The existing language of measure b which is what we all are talking about and voted on and promised the voters, says explicitly and i'm looking at the very first page and this is 7. 2a in our materials. That the estimated amount for each category reflect the amount established and among the categories. That language applies to each category of all the categories. So measure b b bart phase 2 funding is unique only in that it has both a cap and a ratio, but the ratios apply to all 9 categories. Is that not true, ma'am?7:50 PMThe ratios apply to all nine categories because that's how it adds up to 100. Hwever, there is what differentiates the bart project is that ratio over the 25% cap. The ratio is the percent that applies to the bart funding, yes? There is a difference between the cap and the ratio, is it not?You are correct.Colleagues, what's happened in the conversation is people are con folating, smashing together one cap and onto this constraint and there is a budget constraint explicit in the language. Lease don't push the two together. There are two different protections around that money and that's specifically because we hadthese conversations four years ago. If people are going to say now, oh, the ratio doesn't really apply, it doesn't count, it's just the cap, that is the action that would then set aside the language of the measure and quite frankly bring litigation upon us which then has the potential to really stop the project in its tracks which none of us want to see. I understand that people can speculate about the federal government, theother federal government would always like more, fair enough. I understand that people want who place this project above all others as a priority want more money there, but the fact of the matter is that 23.81% is a ratio and the ratio is applied to all nine categories and the principles that we have in front of us right now have ratio references for every single one of the nine categories except this one. So all we are doing is following measure b and conforming the way we treat bart with the way we have treated every other one of the eight categories. If you don't want to do that, then we can't be surprised that we put ourselves at risk for litigation. I hope people will vote for the motion as it stands.7:52 PMIf I may, member simitian. I do believe that the 25% cap on bart does make a difference from the other ratios. So I do want to put that out there.It absolutely does, but no where in the measure b language which you were kind enough to share with us, does it say that the ratios don't apply to bart which is the opposite which says the ratios apply to thecategories. So if you are not arguing is that it doesn't apply, I appreciate your comment earlier that it does apply. So asking that we follow the principles, excuse me, asking that the principles follows the language,it doesn't even request from me.7:53 PMI'm trying to wrap my head around as board member simitian, help me understand. I understand your argument about the ratios. So are you saying that the ratios particularly the ratio for the bart roject is adefault cap?7:54 PMNo, because the funding amount of the category could change over the years and we know that the tax revenue could change over the years. We know that some programs could be fully funded and others might be over described. S, hat i'm saying is that while the other eight categories have only one constraint on them which is their ratio, that in the case of the bart funding, the language provides for two criteria, boththe ratio and the cap and the ratios could change 10-20 years from now and that ratio can go up or down and the cap will always be there. It's suspenders and was very negotiated in open and public settings. I'm asking that you consider that what was done in public setting four years ago.7:55 PMMy understanding about this measure as well as my communicating to the public was that 25% number the cap of 25% was the default and most people state that it was he 25% bart allocation. Based on thescenarios that you described, the board always has the discretion based on the ballot measure to increase funding to bart up to that 25% cap. I don't believe we should set our principles based on what I considered to be a soft cap versus a hard cap for 25%. Again, I feel that was the intent of the ballot measure and the percent and should not mange the change to reduce it to 23. 1 and maintain he 25%. So I will not be supporting your motion, board member.7:56 PMChair hendricks.. next, we are going to member peralez.Thank you. a question for evelyn. What would be the potential litigation risk in regard to what member simitian is proposing here that he feels could bring us some risk?The litigation in this regard would be what board member jones is making is what would be the intent of the voters that would be a taxpayer lawsuit. It's going to revolve around a jury when they look at the caplanguage whether they believe that is the ratio, the established ratio that will guide the allocation of theprogram tax revenues.7:57 PMThank you. I ook at the cap as pretty easy to understand language that it's not o be sort of exceed thatobviously unless other measures are taken, but that's to be interpreted as it says which is the cap, but that one of the other, I think assumptions that is being made and has to be made certainly when the ballotmeasure was constructed was on potential sales tax revenues but that is obviously not a perfect science at least not until it's all done as it's sort of being projected out and then ultimately where those numbers lie at the end of the day of the sales tax measures and thus could be, as we've been describing could ultimately be less than 25% or could come out to be more as we have identified to be cap in that regard. I guess i'm not confused or concerned about what the measure should be or could have been, but more concerned about adding specific percentage here that is less than 25 as a cap or really any specific percentage there especially that might rely on the ales tax estimates that we are projecting here, anythingless than the 25 as was stated in the ballot language and obviously would rely on your support as a general counsel to be able to help guide us if indeed that was a direction that we should not be going. Sothat's kind of the last question is if there is concern with either direction here ith the current proposed motion or if indeed we simply changed the motion or voted this down to make a substitute motion that just left the cap at 25%.8:00 PMI'm not sure I understand your question whether you want to leave the 25% cap to the principle and the ramifications of that.I'm asking two questions, the current motion on the table is suggesting and i'm going with the 23. 1%. Is there a litigation risk with that? You can answer that first?Is there a litigation risk of that amount? I don't think there is a litigation risk of putting that amount in.8:01 PMOkay, secondly, the reiterate reiteration reiteration on the second question, what would be the risk?If it was 25% cap, that is the balance there and there is no litigation risk there either.Okay, thank you.Chair hendricks: next, we have member constantine.Thank you. for ms. tran or ms. Kelly. The ballot on attachment b, are we allowed to go over the established ratio?From a practical standpoint in the end, we are going to have to add up to 100%.8:02 PMOkay, if we were going to, and I understand what board member simitian is saying to a point, but i'm having a hard time wrapping my head around that they both can be true. If we are going to allow bart facphase 2 to go to this 100%, we have to add this to 100% in the end, correct?That's correct. it has to add up to 100%.If we have a motion and it passed as is and then bart would go to 25%, we have to take 21. 9% from other categories, is that right?At some point, yes.Okay, i'm still trying to wrap my head around it, but those are my questions. Thanks, chair.8:03 PMNext we are going to member liccardo.Thank you. I appreciate the dialogue and I went back to take another look at the ballot language. In the pleat tax, it does describe bart phase 2 and the estimated tax $1. 5 billion, the word estimated is usedfrequently at the ballot language for the program ax revenues and 2017 dollars capped at a maximum of 25% program ax revenues. In the language to which director simitian referred said the estimated amounts for each category for the allocation of approximately $6. 3 billion in the approximated use. The estimated amount established ratios for the categories then the next sentence says the board of directors May maximize that category. I think the emphasis is on the words is approximately and estimated because that's what all of these ratios are based on and they don't fund the basis for a lawsuit because they arebasic allocation ratios. What is clearly in the language is a cap at 25%. The reason why none of us have heard of 23. 8 percent before now is because it's not anywhere in the ballot language. I would be happy to support a motion that would incorporate all of the amendments except for that one and I guess perhaps tomake it cleaner if folks are concerned about whether the ratios apply to program category and not another.I would be perfectly fine and simply saying we delete all the language after the 25% cap language of thatprinciple. So it's clear there is a 25% cap, there is already a principle that says we are going to follow the language of the ballot measure. Let's make this simple and not unduly difficult for ourselves in a moment where we critically need to ensure we have confidence from the fta that we are going to do what we told the voters we would do and we have been telling the public we would do. I would make a substitute motionto adopt the language that is described by director simitian with the exception that on the principle, i'm trying to pull up the language now. The principle regarding the 25% cap and the various ratios would simply delete all the language regarding the individual ratios and merely keep the 25% cap on bart since that is what is explicitly in the ballot language. Language.8:06 PMAnd since the language is a little bit different, we May want to bring that up here.I believe it's page 5.My language would simply halt after the language hat is in red red.So your motion is what was there before except the ratio pieces. Did I hear someone second that?Yes, chair. that was constantine constantine.8:07 PMThere is a substitute motion and i'm going to vice-chair.Thank you. there are some things that are just factual that we need to get into the record and I want to get into the record of this meeting. Let's start with language that was read and reread that states the estimated amounts for these categories, blah, blah, blah. And director liccardo wanted to focus on estimated and approximated and here is what it says which is anything other than clear straight forwardlanguage that the court will have to read and apply because it's plain language. It says the estimated amounts for each category, that's each category, all nine of them. Divided by $1. 63 billion establish theratios of the allocation among the categories. That means that the language that we are looking at, that the voters approved that a court would consider has ratios that are established by these estimated amounts. That's what the law provides. That's what the ballot measure provides. It doesn't say estimated or approximates. It says established ratios. That's what we are going to live with. I see people focused on the 25% and I will say again looking at the measure b language, i'm not trying to mind read. It says bart phase 2, estimated $2, estimated 5 billion program tax revenues and goes on to say capped at apercentage of amount f revenues. If that said, hat the dollars used that would be $1. 575 billion meaning another $75 million, but that wasn't what they used, they used the ratio, ot the 25% cap. If the numbers said, 1. 575, that would mean that number. And it said no, we are not going to do 25% of that, we are doing a lesser amount because to member constantine's point earlier, if you said we are going to do the25% not the 23. 1%, that the rest is coming out of someone else's share. So I would urge the memberssupport the language of measure b, follow the law, follow the language, follow the commitment 3 and that May be inconvenient, but that's what's there. I'm quite sure there is a itigation potential that we go forward acting as if the ratio edoes not exist. And that this is not tax estimated of the revenue and proven as of that fact. I appreciate he had his hand up before my second wind here. Thank you.8:11 PMI'm taking it in the order of the highest.Aside from the points that supervisor simitian just made, I want to raise a concern in a substitute motion which I don't think i'm going to endorse, support. But I am concerned about even in that, the potential that it would pass that it removes these other ratios. If the chair would allow, I would like to hearsupervisor simitian's thoughts on the value of retaining ratios, the ratios for the other programs in either motion.8:12 PMThrough the chair if I may?Yes.I could be wrong, but the numbers if I recall correctly, they were what was mentioned by board member liccardo.I'm happy to respond, Mr. Chair, if you would like me to.Go ahead.As Mr. Liccardo said earlier, the question s directed to staff.Okay.I don't have the minutes in front of me. It is my recollection that it was originally proposed by Mr. Liccardo, but elaine will have the ctual minutes.8:13 PMThe only reason I reference it is I was surprised to hear earlier the comment, well, this 23. 81 wasn't a number that was explicitly called out in the measure b and the ratios for none of the other five items that were requested to be included weren't there either as ratios. They are there in the description that I read saying shall establish the ratios. But Mr. Bert, I understand your desire to have these ratios here to protect the relative entitlement to each of these different categories but I don't want to put them there if thesuggestion there is that it was a onscious decision of our bo boa -- board is not to honor this and the ay it is in each category and what is roposed by staff is on the previous page 4 that states all the programs andhere the numbers that are called out but we don't have the final one. That would lead somebody to believe that the ratios don't apply to that one when the language of the measure clearly says they do. I think we would be better off to just leave them out altogether and finesse this point. I won't vote for the substitutemotion because think it is litigation bait as well as wrong, but I don't think we want to list eight categories and say the eighth cap one doesn't have a ratio.8:15 PMI appreciate those points. i'm worried that we jeopardized the other programs even more in standing on that what I think is a correct principle.Would you be more comfortable if it said consistent with a 25% cap of program tax revenues on the bart phase 2 program category and the apping point on measure b and instead of saying that one that might not apply. I think that would be a happy solution for us all.I think that might be more acceptable. Mayor liccardo, as the maker, what are your thoughts on that?Chair hendricks: I think that's a question is to ask of sam, not to staff.8:16 PMI am certainly happy to -- look, the very first principle ballot language and yes, I said - any constraint that is in the ballot language on funding, it should be incorporated by necessity. That's what we are all saying.So, the challenge I have is if we are going to come up with a number that is conflicting with the federalgovernment and the public and the taxpayers that just came up in the last two hours, that is a concern. If you want to say something look the lines of in any other radios contained in the ballot language, fine. Butwhat i'm not interested in doing is creating conflicting numbers. Okay, so I understand that next point you want to make and that's been understood. I think there is a counter argument that I happen to think is stronger, but if you would consent to adding that additional clauson the ratios consistent with the ballot language on the other categories, i'm still, I think that's an improvement. I still think that the initial motion is the correct one and I will be supporting that and I don't want to mislead you on that, but I think --8:17 PMWell, honestly i'm not that interested in taking the amount if you are not interested in supporting the motion. But to a compromise that we can agree on and if you don't agree, we can move forward.We have two issues before us. one is that if we are going to have a compromise that you think is the correct compromise. The other is whether that change if your motion should prevail, provides better consistency with the ballot language and ut of principle, I would hope that you would include that clause inyour motion because you believe that you are trying to come as close as possible to abiding by the ballot language.8:18 PMMy motion includes principle one, comply with the language of the ballot measure.Okay, and lastly, it sounds like you are not receptive to that.If you are not receptive to compromising because I don't see the legal defect.Lastly, would we potentially be better informed on this issue and curtail by month and have the actual sales tax dta?8:19 PMAre you asking staff on that?Yes.Do you want to let colleagues respond?Well, first, I would like to hear from staff on that.I don't know that gets to this at all. The principles that we are adopting would be for the life of the measure. So it doesn't have to do with any sales tax updates at any given time. The reason we would liketo have the principles adopted tonight and direct the allocations to the formula base programs to work that and get it into the biennial budget.Okay, thank you.Next is member paul.Sorry to digress a little bit. First I want to confirm the substitute motion what I have heard on the slide is to supervisor simitian's ridge motion?8:20 PMThrough the chair?Yes, please.Yes. that's my intention.Okay. thank you.Supervisor simitian and then I would like to make a comment.Thank you, I am hopeful that we can get to yes, believe it or not. Here is what I want to confirm with member liccardo about his motion. If after the words consistent with the 25% cap of program tax revenues on the bart phase 2 program category, if member liccardo were amenable on his substitute motion to adding the words and the ratios applicable to each category, it would read consistent with the 25% category with bart phase 2 category, I would be prepared to support the substitute motion. I believe that solves the issue that member bert raised and solves the issue on the table that member liccardo wasconcerned about and saves that debate for another day in a way that no one could possibly argue that because the number that nobody was liking is not anywhere in the body. So I will just say, sam, if you are okay with that, I will vote for it and I can look at Mr. Bert in the eye and say if that's a compromise.8:21 PMThat's up to you.That's an amendment I thought I was prepared to accept last time and i'm happy to accept it this time.8:22 PMThe added words are and the ratios were applicable to each category.The maker of the motion was agreeable to that. And you are okay with it?If can add to it. we keep the ratio as the way they are and 'm looking at attachment b, without any changes to ratios, you can't get up to 25%, am I correct?8:23 PMWhat's in the at that moment is just a simple map with just the ratios, yes.But again, those ratios are solid, correct?Those ratios are taking the dollar amount that was assumed in the measure. That's what we are talking about.I May be confused and asking the wrong question, but if we are capping the 25% and we apply the board member simitian's friendly amendment of keeping those ratios the same, we can't get to 25%, am I wrong in that?I think what the language says were just going to be consistent with what the language in the measure says.8:24 PMStop right there, don't say anything else.I think that's what it says.All right. i'm fine with that in the second.I'm seeing no more in the discussion. I'm ready to accept the substitute motion and time to ask staff to do a vote.This is for the substitute motion. To be clear that I have it correctly, it's basically to approve the staff'srecommendation as you see on your screen with changes on the slide no. 5 to end at program category and add -- and all ratios applicable to each category and take out all the rest that were in green, and thechanges that were made on slide no. 6 on bullets 1 and 2 on that page. Did I get that correctly?I believe that is correct.Perfect. with that, we will go ahead and do the roll call vote for the substitute motion made by liccardo and second by constantine.8:25 PM[roll call]Motion passes unanimously, thank you.Okay.I'm going to take a quick poll. E have been going for about three hours and a couple more items into closed session. Do you want to keep piling through and go into closed session or do you want to take abreak now? I don't see any hands.8:26 PMI would say we continue and take a break into closed session.I just wanted to check but i'm asking people. Okay, i'm moving on to agenda item 7. 3. Information item - review transit-oriented development (tod) program, business plan background. Congestion management program & planning (cmpp) committee there were no items submitted for the regular agenda from thecongestion management program & planning committee. Safety, security, and transit planning & operations (sstp&o) committeeThank you, chair. we are here to provide an informational item on the todd program that has been receiving revenue from the program and that fund receives the revenue funds. What we hope to do today is to provide a progress report nd to discuss with you since we react elevated the program in 2016 and as we are doing any kind of real estate development and we have gained experience we want to share with you. For the first time that we want to share with you also with the consultants looking at the opportunity that we now have a good sense of what the opportunities are long-term for the program and we want toshare tonight. This is intended to vote to provide information and hopefully that also informs the upcoming work on the plan and we'll talk about the program and partnerships and talk about that vision of 2040 for voting on the program and the immediate work for the next couple of years. I should know that in the agenda packet we have a memo that provided the full items and also has the full todd project as well as information sheets on the sides. What the max shows here are the sites that have been established and also consistent per the board's policy that when we have sites for construction changing for the projects, if hose are suitable to be added to the list. The genesis for members that May be new to the board and for the public, that in santa clara county, most of these sites are light rail stations and we have applied over 7,000 parking spaces and on average across the system, we have never gotten much above 25% of parking utilization. We have a lot of under utilized parking and over the decades that we have run thesystem has proven that it will not provide more riders. The other site includes some land adjacent o the yard and of course we are now starting to plan for bart phase 2 and the land available for thatconstruction. When the board adopted the todd policy it established three primary goals for this activity,one is to use transient oriented development for the ridership. The second is to catalyze the ideas and for projects for and around our stations for the general benefit of more ridership growth. Finally the todd program, we are trying to generate long-term stable revenues to be used for transit investments as well as transit operations. In addition to those primary goals and I will supply more n a couple minutes and that is one for housing policy for affordable housing that is for the residential units that we are creating that are 35% that will be affordable units and by affordable, we mean households of 50% and under ami. With that, we'll walk you through so the of the particulars of the work that we have been doing.8:30 PMTo accomplish some of the significant program goals that ron just mentioned, we've broken down to accomplish our significant program goals we've broken down the process into consumable stages. This five stage graphic is from vta's todd policy which was approved by the board in 2019 as ron mentioned and allthe projects are complex and can take 3-5 years to move through the stages. We have significant agencies to help us accomplish our partnership and goals and for the housing and funding source for measure a and the city of mountain view for housing units and coordinating with divisions to maximize with vta ridershipexperience without conflicts. Our program progress to date includes five current projects. The station site which is a totals of 569 units, 135 which will be affordable, the hills station sites, 328 units at that location with 89 affordable housing units. At our yards, anticipate nearly a million of square feet of life science andmanufacturing and 18 senior assisted living units, 65 affordable housing units and 200,000 medical office space. At the evelyn park & ride lots, I affordable housing units. These will yield approximately 500 units, 800 market rate units, 36,000 square feet of retail, 1 million square feet of commercial space andapproximately 400,000 quare feet of manufacturing. This includes the gilroy transit center, the berryessa bart station and the capital park & ride lot. This helps us make major strides to our affordable housing goals. This slide presumes the evidence of the bart phase 2 program and including our portfolio capacity of approximately 40%. The bart todd portion of our portfolio is a key opportunity to significantly grow ridership and revenues for our agency. We have utilized the expertise 3 of consultants to help us reach our portfolio potential. You will see we have 25 affordable housing units, almost 5,000 new units, 500,000 square feet of retail for commercial and 1 thousand hotel rooms. The full build-out will total 11 millionsquare feet of transient oriented development and ron will be presenting the next slide.8:34 PMThank you. by 2040 which is where we estimate the 20 year build-out to be completed, based on our work of projects and also looking at projects that are built to the market and proposed for the future bart stations as well as on the bart system, and i'm going to stress some figures here with ridership and revenue. With respect to ridership, we expect to prior to being built out by the portfolio, we have 13,000 new bart riders in total and on the revenue side, these are figures of the 2020 dollars and on this model from the transportation consultants, will generate another $29 million a year in new fare box revenue forvta and will generate further around the year because of the structure we build in those agreements.Finally in the joint development fund, it's the cost but also the revenues that comes from agreement that we project in 2040, if no money is taken out, the new fund will have a balance of $200 million. These are 2020 numbers. I will share when you look at the revenue, we are looking at 7. 5% of vta transit. Now I would like to talk about how we can increase the benefits that I just shared and this is not just on todd projects but looking at transient oriented development communities. I want to thank ms. Fernandez for his work on this concept. First I want to talk about what is transient oriented development communities.Maybe we have five or ten acres. When you look at the area with a ten minute walk around the station,that might be about 500 acres and if we can confirm with the cities and how we are doing tod projects is really about creating places that are truly multimodal that create complete street environments thatsupports all mobility, walking, biking, micro mobility and in addition to getting around by car. This transient oriented development opportunity is to strengthen the connection between our county. We see thesetransient oriented development opportunities for growth in a manner that is carbon neutral and addresses sustainable ssues and in a matter that helps us achieve our development and inclusivity and also with oureconomic recovery. This is not something that we are alone in considering, but something that is happening all around the country and around the world. When we talk about this, this is at really best practice when we are talking about land use. When we look at this, this is what the work is focused on. So to evaluator elaborate on that concept more, we see transient stations that load 15 minute cities hat are the idea from where you are within a 15 minute walk from accessing the bike and transient orienteddevelopment mobility where you can access places to live, work, shop that you are not dependent on a car on a daily basis. This is from melbourne and australia. If you saw on the news the other day, google was very clear about their vision of how they are trying to create a 15 minute city around heir bart station. We talk about this here because in terms of the transient oriented development in our community and our system, we are really looking at the state board of education where ideally all of these systems by a rangeof long transit corridor that really does promote sustainable healthy prosperous walkable and equitable places for people to meet all of their needs for places to live, work, learn, shop and play.8:39 PMI would like to talk about some other challenges and how we address the challenges and needs for more housing. Based on our current forecast, we are looking at 1. 4 million new households in the bay area and 1. 5 million new jobs between 2020 and 2050. Those are to occur in santa clara county. And the growth is going to occur next to transit. We think it's possible to exceed that number. And we think that this isactually an opportunity as I was saying before about how you connect different places through transit. The reason we have the image of the bottom of the slide, this is from vancouver and british columbia.Vancouver is a very much suburban area similar to santa clara county, and as you know, it has theseextensions in the same way as these areas and protecting that overall urban character of that area. We see this as an opportunity to addressing the challenges that vta is facing, but also to the region's growththrough the next several decades. The key point is if we do it in this fashion, we can have this growth and continue the impacts than continue o do things the way we have so far. To wrap this up, we would like to bring it ack to more current work that we are doing with the todd program. What we are doing now as this slideshows as we bring these agreements to the board, we have been taking this initial project as we havebefore and bringing you access to existing riders and how we can make safety improvements. We can do what we call actually not simply great places, but building on the existing residents and characters to keeppeople more active and finally on the objectives to making this reference. When we look at the reference inaddition to the goals and additional revenues, there are other things that we think is very important. We already mentioned about affordable housing and this is a desperate need for affordable housing in our county and the second is to make it equitable and the work that we do is to have the communities remain and thrive so these projects are actually enhancing where they live and work and at the same time toddcreates places for new residents and this has to be about an anti-displacement approach where we are helping this community and we add this capacity. This is also about workforce development and address the shortage of the construction industry which is one of the drivers of the construction cost which is enhanced feasibility sustainability. It's about moving towards a carbon free future that our buildingsadvance net 0 energy goals. With that, I would like to go to the next slide and summarize the immediate work.8:43 PMRon, you did a great job of summarizing our 2040 vision. With this side, I want to highlight what you cananticipate back from us in the next two years. You will see numerous ground breaking and anticipate a newground breaking at the live lots. We will hope to come back to the board for future agreements andcontract authority for the projects. We'll be asking the board to allow us to move forward with rfp's with request for proposals along with ballot selection and you will see us come up with further bart phase for asking for allocation and as well as requesting authorization from the board to authorize request for proposals for the new term opportunities for the bart size transient oriented development sites. This concludes the presentation we wanted to share with you tonight. This is an informational item, however weare seeking your feedback on the implementation information and process and look forward to yourcomments and questions. Thank you.8:45 PMChair hendricks: ron and jessie, thank you very much. Let's go to our public speakers.Okay, it looks like we have three public speakers. Roland, followed by eugene and blair. Roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: yes, thank you. Firstly I agree with staff when I spoke to people about the light rail. The second question is why do we have 125,000 spaces when I have never seen more than 200 cars at that station. Second, it's unclear that why vta would basically obliterate the parking lot which is 200% of capacity and nothing happened on the vta parking lot which is on the other side of the parking. My other question is that I keep hearing about this diridon bart station and I would like to have me understand which bart is the integration station that he does not understand. Thank you.8:46 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. staff, if we can get the clock to operate.> our next speaker is eugene. public speaker: good evening, board members, just a couple questions regarding that interesting presentation regarding the todd project. When it mentioned my first question is regards to 13,000 poles between buses and light rail and how that number was derived whether it was precovid or after covid. My second question that I have and please fix the clock. The second question is thedefinition of the market rates. What is the definition of market rates. Are you going by city or county because too often, it's not basically to be able to afford to live there. It concerns me that especially if they are senior or disabled, that they would not be able to live in such housing.8:47 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please.Chair, if I may, this is elaine, we are having some technical issues with the timer right now. So i'm going to use my phone to time.8:48 PMThat's okay. I have got that going and I will let people know when they have 30 seconds or ten seconds.Public speaker: thank you. Blair beak man here. I spoke with the city government yesterday with the dilemma on how to work with housing around transit area and exactly how to serve it. These requests have become a little bit difficult to state level when local municipalities ask these state levels to help.30 seconds.Thank you.Ask about it more. mixed income ideas are incredible ideas that are hoped to be explored. There is more tothis idea that can really help the process of extremely low and very low-income that needs to be talked about and openly described. Good luck to this work to all of us. Thank you.8:49 PMThank you and our next speaker.Our final speaker is sid.You May begin speaking when ready.Hi, thanks for that great presentation. I just want to say that i'm personally a really strong believer of potential todd and can help mitigate a lot of the issues that santa clara county is facing such as low transit ridership and ow-income housing affordability. I hope this todd rogram is pursued strongly. My only concern be would be that I hope the program can make sure that the program it delivers is affordable.Thank you.Okay. thank you.I think that was our last public speaker. I will go back to my colleagues. Do they have any comments or comments they would like to share with staff. Member montano.8:50 PMThank you, chair. i'm a little bit confused as to why we dealing with housing and concerned about raising shall -- to backtrack, you said ridership growth to raising revenues. Ridership growth, as I said before, the light rail system is too slow. People aren't going to ride it if it takes them an hour to get to their destination to their jobs. I am concerned if you pave these lots and we have some other new mode, we are not going to have these parking lots. They are not utilized because there is no incentive for them to take on. I'm afraid if you raze these parking lots, you are not going to get them back. That's my concern.8:52 PMTo answer your question, which is to make this housing available for the community and how the program and metro in los angeles, what our work has shown is that we have to date such as bart as you look at an area occupied by development, that generates more transit ridership than any area. And if it's more of n effective way of providing ridership than parking and the second thing is ridership which is more important and we have been looking at our lots and if you have a current ridership, let's protect the parking thoseriders are using and let's look at todd and ultimately than we have in land for a future date. That is also hy the board previously adopted the hierarchy in terms of our priority for how people get to stations and ourpriority and this is also reflecting bart and in los angeles and how we get to transit and where people canride their bikes and associated to transit. I wanted to be clear and this is parking and we are trying to support the level of uses that people have in terms of riding to their stations. You have more ridership as aresult than just keeping the parking in place.8:54 PMOne more question. are we the only transportation agency that is doing this? What other agencies are doing this?Bart has been doing this for a couple of decades now. Metro and los angeles has a very active transient oriented development program and l. A. And the seattle region transient oriented development and leadingthe in those goals and ontreal and louisiana.Once it's gone, it's gone because the new technologies are coming and we don't know what new technologies will come in the future, but once we don't have that land, it's gone. That's all. Thank you.8:55 PMChair hendricks: next is member chavez.Director chavez: thanks. to staff, this evolution of this program is powerful. Thank you for all the good work. The one thing that I will just add and comment in response to your comments that you raised and the goal of the transit issues and land use and one way we can ensure land use around transit hubs is part of that decision making and want to reinforce that transit agencies bring this as lots of ways to have different avenues for resources. Just to stab kind of broadly, what do you consider the most significant difference between this to this presentation today.8:56 PMI think that myself and jessie restarted the tot program in 2016.From a year ago.Thank you. that's a great question. Somebody on the board recalling to 2019. What happened over a long period of time. And about a year 1/2 ago, we looked at the situation and this is not news. I know that many of the members in cities that development is aware of this, even though we have extraordinarily highnumbers, the cost of doing development become so high that many market projects before the pandemic were struggling to become more feasible and we realized that was happening and there needed to be someadjustments for the need for the market development to take up. So at that time, we came to the board to say, we think the opportunity is to be able to shift to affordable housing and that's because the nature ofaffordable housing that has different fundings sources that are not depend on market conditions and market feasibility. I think we have heard from the board at that time and wanted to proceed in that path and that's what we are doing with that county. If I understand your question, most recently what we have been doing is focusing a lot on affordable housing and at the same time we try to realize otheropportunities and they come up and driven by the fact that even though the real estate market is in general is off during this pandemic and during this time and that is an example of why we pursue that project.8:58 PMI think I was asking a different question in terms of affordable housing. I think that was more of a push than a pull and I think that's fine because part of the push and pull is you are responding to the market and the board was very enthusiastic about affordable housing. I appreciate that you are responding to the market and maybe I will just end with this thought which is I was really thinking about the rubric of the 15 minute city from an adoption perspective and I like that it's a great way to be thinking and regarding the housing and jobs. Any way, this is helpful and thanks and congratulations. You have done a lot of great work.8:59 PMMember liccardo.Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just had a question around thinking about what drives ridership and we often hear that destinations and employment tend to drive ridership more than housing. You know, if we were to look at the aggregate numbers in table two which is 3. 9 million square fee feet. Can you tell me how you came up with that mix?That's a great question. what we are always doing is we are first of all starting with the existing plans in the existing cities. We have to start with the general plans that we want to accomplish. Beyond that we also look at where the market is at and where we look at what cities are doing and what we think about forexample how things might evolve. This program you see here is a reflection on the size basis for each of the stations we looked at what are the cities general plans and the market opportunity and where we think this is headed and we develop the program. As you say that there is more riders for employment than residential. Some offices are very dense and when you look at downtown bart station and you look at all the the station, that all wants to be a major center. Some of the areas that are further down the light railline those are not employment areas now and really kind of triangulation of all the consideration of how this gets to the program. We always try to think of this because what we want to do is maximize ridership as much as we can and on partnership based on some market consideration and also where places are active throughout the day and evening. One of the things you on't want to do is to create a place at 5:00 where everybody is home.I agree and appreciate there is a balance out here and particularly given the need for affordable housing and appreciate the affordable housing located as close to transit as possible and I would drive as an xample around the question of flexibility that we have for this policy as reference to the 500 units that are for the diridon block and in the market find out that housing developers where people don't want to live across from an arena where 18,000 fans have come out of after just seeing a shakira concert. That May bemore desirable for an office location. Are we locked on this or are you flexible?This is not locking us into this. It's an investment and we are going to continue to evolve. And other issues I can make is to lock a place when you are done and this is for activities that respond to needs and this will continue to evolve and what we see and analyze what is possible and if we have to involve with how to get the best possible outcome.Thanks.Member bert?Thanks, ron for a really excellent presentation and vision. I was real pleased that you really embraced the transit oriented community concept from 4c and others. I would really like to encourage that we move full scale there and adopt that as both the nomenclature that reflects the vision. And we are still using transient oriented development and we want to switch the thinking to what you are advocating. Within that, there are a couple elements to the proposal that I wanted to get more clarity on. One is this dilemma we face between revenue per square foot s maybe twice as high on the office and on r&d commercial as it is for market rate housing. Yet within the plan bay area, we have a regional goal of 1. 4 million housing units and 1. 5 million jokes. -- jobs and the ratios of 1. 7 jobs per household, that means weeed to have a ratio if we are going to have balance in our development which we are creating or exacerbating ourhousing deficit, we have to have that ratio be better and the numbers that you had up there for commercial square footage versus households did not seem to have that balance. Frst, let me ask, is that something that you are conscious of, is that something that is part of the plan which is to create as muchhousing as we have additional jobs?You are asking a great question. The thirst thing I will observe, the 1. 6 figure you cited is one figure and that's turning downwards because housing is getting smaller. Nowadays, it's probably more in the 1. 2 or 4 range. I under what you are saying and ultimately what we have to do is vta has to partner with the stations. As we think about land and from our perspective, this is what is thinking about this site they are thinking about partnering citie cities.Then you just answered my next question after that, thank you. Because that partnering with the cities on the zoning s critical. Neural so then, when you are alluding to the declining jobs for household ratio, I would be very interested as a follow up seeing the statistical basis for that and to what degree is that beingdriven by us creating smaller and smaller units that are studios and one bedrooms and we are not creating a balance between those units and ones for families that are multiple bedrooms even if they are higherdensity developments. And so are we attempting to strike a demographic balance of household types in the projects in this whole vision as well and I will couple that with the last question which is on the affordable housing, I think that's really great that we have such a sizable element on affordable housing we have seen in this region that the middle income or workforce housing, he market is not really able to provide that and we are getting a low-income housing and market rate upper income housing. So, what about that middle section which is increasingly needing to have either a land subsidy, zoning subsidy or financialsupport subsidy to create it?You've touched on a couple great points and the first thing I will say is very honest what we are showing is the greatest policy that we have and the funding available as what is possible which is to advance things and the missing middle income housing piece and market rate housing and we have some projects we hope to bring to the board in the next year or so that might be models of that, but we can be as an agencyadvocate for other solutions that do that. I think to your other part about housing, when we do projects for a time for affordable housing for school districts for more family housing nits and finally on thedemographic questions. I wasn't try to say cost and effect but demographic trends where they are fewer kids in a household. So if we follow that demographic trend that is already happening that is what is driving down this ratio.Thank you.Member constantine.Thank you, chair. a great presentation and I was really applaud the thought behind having more transientoriented development housing and of course building affordable housing. We in morgan hill increase thedensity around downtown to have more housing near our transportation options. However, we have a dearth of transportation options. So I would just ask that when we look at putting forward these affordable housing options that staff also look at transportation housing that are addressing the needs as well. If you are looking at that project in morgan hill, you have this project and you wouldn't have more people riding the transit system because as member montano said, it's not convenient. So, I would just ask that when we look at housing elements, that we also look at what was some of the impediments to people usingtransportation in those areas so we are not exacerbating the issue of adding more vehicles to the freeway.It's almost reverse and lots of times trying to align this with transit but you have to bring that transit to work out properly. I think that's an excellent point.Member paul?My comment around slide no. 9 on the presentation, it's the complete build-out of all the various different types of construction and, you know, when i'm looking at it and I really appreciate the comments bymember bert with regards to finding that balance. Because of course we need housing, more affordable housing and we have the 3. 9 million square feet and we need to keep in mind is not just the racial o-- ratio of housing needing but also jobs. And we are talking more than 15,000 employees created by thecommercial space that is the commercial space can accommodate and we are looking at something on the order of 7,000 or so units of housing. Now, if that number cuts in half with regard to the number ofemployees, we are looking at then what that means is that perhaps the commercial ratio would double. It would be more than 500 square feet. Of course, the prior trend to covid told us that that really wasn't the way it was going. I really think we need to keep and eye on that to get a scope of the impact. I do have aquestion with regard to advanced manufacturing. I can't find the data. So it says, roughly 380,000 square feet of the advanced manufacturing. I don't know what the squared ratio of that type of usage to the number of employees that can be accommodated. I know hotel rooms are available and understood ataround 500 square feet for a worker. Those are my comments.Chair hendricks: that looks like everybody and I will throw a couple things out of here. I think that is the right place to go as the cities. The city of sunnyvale is looking to do the general plan for moffett park any other 237 and we are looking at the action for growth and we are using anchoring around the light-rail station and using the 20 cities for trying to do that for not building just 24 hour usable pace but 18 hour. Ithink these principles and the strategies of what you are trying to do, some of these slides and the displays that were used for the presentation we saw on tuesday. I think this makes sense for vta to do it where we can maintain in the flexibility that sam was talking about and we don't want to be too rigid and too flexible and we are doing it around the light rail stations around moffett park area and we are trying o make these concepts grow and we are struggling with the ame questions that you were asking about with how much is this or that and coming up close within the next common of months to defining those for the moffett park area to get started. To me, these principles to be used by a transit agency and also by our own jurisdictions s we look at general plans. So I think this is great. Are there any other thoughts or questions from my colleagues? Ron, did you get hat you wanted from us?Yes, that's very helpful, thank you.Okay, that was an information item, we are going to move on. 8. Other items I would like to remind you that we have general public comments at the conclusion of the report.Thank you. starting today, vta received the fund boarding to provide added protections for our operatorsand customers. I'm just going to give you some statistics here. In january, we had 59 positive covid-19 cases. And in february, basically in the last 30 days, we had 5 cases. So it's great news for us. With the number of the covid-19 cases declining and vaccinations increasing with safe guards for the bus fare collections can safely resume. Continued safe guards and mask waergsz wearings. Vta will still offer free rides to people traveling to and from vaccination appointments. We are asking customers to show theirvaccination slips when they board. Each week we map transit riders for the vaccination sites and for social media and website vta. Org. Please spread the word so you can find the map on the vta website and the url is on this slide.A moment ago, we are continuing our efforts to show the operations state as they go about their jobs. For the barriers of the 29 foot vehicles were approved by vta and began March 19. Delivery is scheduled to start May 19 and to be completed by the end of september.Great news, March 19. transit workers became eligible for the covid-19 vaccination with strong advocacy and four labor units. I would like to thank board member chavez and the leadership and staff at the county of santa clara for the informational role with implementation of vaccinations for essential workers. Vta has been working the county's vaccination clinic at the santa clara county fairgrounds. Today over 800employees have been vaccinated. Vta employees have also volunteered at the county with over 80 shifts.There have been numerous reports of attacks on the asian community. Vta is standing in solidarity working to stop the rise in iolence against asian americans. We established the national day of action and posting messages via social media in support and solidarity. We are planning further discussions about this issue aswe observe asian pacific islander heritage in memory. Vta office of business diversity program is putting out a quarterly newsletter next week. Our office of business diversity is getting small and businesses and we expect to deliver copies to you electronically in the next week. Finally, I want to announce that our newly opened center has received the platinum award. The support in infrastructure shows the report to recognize the commitment of the long-term sustainability and increasing mobility for local residents.Congratulations to our bart team and our sustainability team for their good work. Agenda item 8. 1a is a report of transit ridership trends.Thank you. this is a few slides to give you an update of what's going on. First for context here. You know that the county health order at vta's capacity to carry riders on board of our vehicles and that means that we would have a capacity of 80 to 90% and the result is that those have to pass up riders that just attend20 percent of capacity and that context is really important to look at transit ridership. This is the best picture of ridership, daily boarding since the pandemic started through middle of march. You can see here that ridership pretty much fell off the cliff almost immediately dropped down and we carried in a seven day average about 22,000 riders pretty early on in the pandemic and stayed consistently low throughout thepandemic, but I will observe here an important observation that ridership is coming up. Since late january, we have seen a marked increase in ridership demand and now the numbers are more like 39,000 on an average day and that includes our weekend days. That is 16,000 more people per day that we are carrying on our system with the beginning parts of the pandemic. Now the final thing to note here is we put the numbers up in red which is hard to see but shows you the relative number of pass ups in relation to the ridership we are carrying. I will zoom in on the numbers on my next slide. This one shows all the pass upsthat happened since we were recording and we have a computer device on board the vehicle to touch a button to respond to the number of vehicles where they have to pass up. That's where this data is coming from every day where it tells us to sum up the riders unfortunately. So obviously this is concerning and clearly there is a market increase since late january. Like I said for noted earlier on the ridership slide. We did increase service on February 8 and allocated a bunch of resources to the routes with the highest number of pass ups and towards the right side of the screen here. You can see the trend that started before that and that tells us all evidence tells us if we hadn't done that, that would be worse and now wehave the ridership report yesterday and that trend is continuing and demand is coming up. From our partners in the bart project, this is boardings and the ridership at bart station and berryessa and that is coming up as well in the later part of January as well. In fact it's up 38% or so and very similar to the amount that is up on the vta side. Next slideshows our covid levels and we have been increasing service since then and now at 80%. That 80% that I just mentioned is using every available operator for serviceincluding over time. Which means we are maxed out. This is as much service that we can possibly offer.We are putting as much as we can in order to serve our riders, but that pass up issue is not going to go away until we can resume normal operations on the vehicles and that county order goes away. We are running more service to run on particular routes that have higher numbers of pass ups including many routes that are operating at that prepandemic level of service. They are operating the 15 minutes ofservice that they are used to operate and operating two routes that are operating more service than preacademics and running at 10 minutes rather than 15. We started our hiring and entering process and should be for operator nd training process earlier this year to get pipelines going. We have a half dozen classes scheduled throughout 2021. We are hirias much as we can to get more out there and we are training during the pandemic because we are limited to how many folks wet put in a room to do testing and training and training with line instructors. So we have new plans to maximize and expand the numbers so we have more operators coming on line. Finally, staff is preparing a service repair recovery map forservice that we'll be bringing to the next, the committees in may, next month May committees and June board for action in june. That completes my report.Thank you jay and congratulations on your award. I want to check with my colleagues for any questions.We'll do general public comanager's report public comment after the report.Thank you. do you keep records on the ridership on seniors, middle-agers.Yes, we did a survey in 2017 which gives us a nice response and we have a new major service change and a lot of the routes are different. We hope to do one in the next couple years.A lot of schools are closed right now because of covid. So when tudents start, I think the colleges are still closed, right. So are they going to be any changes in the ridership when, what are your plans when you get that surge of students coming in?That's a great question. we have staff that we have a staff member with a full-time job with the county that are providing supplementary school service and we are adding trips where necessary to meet demand. We are adding for example 17 trips every day to serve fremont high school, and that happens allover the county. Milpitas high is a great example. We are adding trips to serve the milpitas high. We are in touch with the offices. It's been a challenge. Plans, I think everybody's making plans up and they seem to change almost weekly now. Ut as soon as schools come back, we have trips that are ready to go to insertinto our service for operators to serve the students, but I will say, we could not serve prepandemic levels of ridership on schools at 6-9 people a pop on board. As long as those capacity restrictions re in place, our ability to limit to serve schools is really going to be limited.Yeah, I can imagine what the parents are going to do. Thank you. >> thanks. evelyn, I think we are at 8. 1b, the government affairs update is a written report and provided in the board packet and online agenda packet. Before I conclude, I want to note the security statistics andridership information is in the online packet.Chair hendricks: thank you. now we are taking public comment on item 8. 1 a, b c. Do we have any speakers?Yes, we have five, first is roland followed by jody and eugene.Roland, you May speak when you are ready.Public speaker: thank you, let me help you what is missing from the report. Basically is the slide that you showing the exact funding is missing. Let me help you out which is another $14 million which means at the end of june, we have $130 million sitting at the table. What could we do with it? When the driver pushes the button with x number of people, we have uber and lyft to pick up these people. You are passing 45,000 people a month. This was $50 that would be $2 million dollar a month. That was 1/3 of the cost. And to bart, the projections, in the operations and passengers.Thank you.Hello, thank you, my name is joete, a member of the people's riders alliance. The intended funds were to support the agencies as you are adapting to covid and still required in public spaces and not prioritizesavings of the stimulus funds and I believe this is where this presentation is going to reduce the social distancing. At l. A. Metro, they are committing to using funds to sources of prepandemic levels. Vta pressure to release these funds for service instead of allowing funds to remain holdings and capital projects and using to get back to prepandemic levels while creating new solutions to new bus lines and new service routes is the best strategy for getting people to take transit again and we can use more ofthose funds.Next speaker, please.>Hello, my name is nathan, in solidarity with workers and riders. I encourage the vta board to prioritize the complete prioritization to prepandemic levels and not to over crowd the number of buses currently running and they are over crowding that are supplementally different to the global pandemic. Thus not activelymaking it possible for riderships and to raise the possibility of social distancing at all and staying no less to be six feet apart can be a way to address this deadly virus. Vta should provide the service to riders.Thank you. we have four more speakers. John, followed by monica and jerry. John, you May beginspeaking when you are ready.Good evening, vta board. my name is john courtney, president of atu. Local 265. I just want to say a few things. I'm really sorry that the county health as it conveniecon convenes convenes. It's not going away.It's not an inconvenience. They are not just numbers, they are people. These are people fighting for our lives. We had two deaths among our membership. To just put it as numbers as an inconvenience. Please eep the social distancing at six feet. Put some money towards operations and service, not your pet capital projects. You spent four 1/2 hours talking about everything except public transit and this is still vta publictransit company. With all of that, I want to say hank you to those who helped and feel sorry for those who don't get it. Thank you.Hi, this is monica melon. I really appreciate all the information you provided and feel the data and the amount per day and nobody should be late for a medical appointment especially since there is $139 million available for this service and without reducing social distancing. I hope you consider this as you are lookingat transplant planning and the budgets. You really need to prioritize for this source of service in a way that oesn't put us at risk. It's a lot better to be safe than sorry and especially considering that vta operators and continued planning have died from covid possibly at work. So I really hope you will put safety first.Good evening.I'm anne. I find it ir response that vta is consistently putting safety on the back burner. We have at every turn fought for safety of our members and of the public. Starting with reporting, ppe's provided by our union when vta failed to provide them. Fighting for the vaccinations, fighting for the six foot distancing,safety shields. I can go on and I know this because i'm a safety steward. Vta needs to release the cares act funds and focus or health and safety.> next speaker is jamie.Hi. service has been cut to the bone. It's time to reinvest invest in operations and rides and vta needs to increase service, not to reduce this. You need to provide more drivers for the riders and will it require that ventilation needs to be required. Spend the money you have received, use the cares act money to increase hours of service and pay to get service on the streets and stop passing people up. I'm urging the vta board of directors to focus on operations and capital projects.That oncludes public comment.I will close our public speaker uestion and ask if there are final questions for the general manager.I have one.Okay, go ahead.Ys, so it was mentioned that some riders were bypassed, is that true and how many were bypassed?I think that was in jay's report and he had a slide and discussing what we are trying to do for this.Is anything going to be done about it or is there a future discussion?Jay, do you have any additional comments?We are putting out as much service as we can using every available operator and we are restarting our hiring pipeline hiring operators to get back to more service and put out as much service as possible.To clarify, when we talk about service, are you referring to service hours, operations of the bus as opposed to precovered if we serve 100,000 residents to 10,000 service hours of buses and light rail, we are trying to get to the 10,000 service hours, is that variable?Yes, when we talk about service, we mean how many buses we have out there going back and forth to our service providers. We have the buses out in the system, right now maybe it's 310 or so, the idea s to get that bumped up as much as possible so that is more often and you have more capacity the next bus willpass people up because it's full so getting more buses out there, more frequent service and therefore we can carry more riders. That it's what I mean by service levels.Did you have anymore questions?That's it. thank you.Member constantine.Thank you, chair. can some of the staff address some of the comments made by our operators?This is evelyn. there is currently n, we are not doing anything to go down to three feet. There is still thesocial distancing requirements of the county is still in place. What we were trying to provide information to the board is given the limitations on capacity and the pass ups. We are at capacity with our riders and we are trying to get more operators and get them trained and on the buses to provide additional service. That was the objective of this particular report.So we are not looking to reducing capacity but more on the line to increase the capacity.We will increase capacity when it is safe to do so.Thank you very much.Chair hendricks.. I think that was everybody's comments here. I'm going to conclude 8. 1. We are now going to the chair's report. The first thing I want to talk about is section 218. I hope everybody noticed that we had something on the consent calendar to approve and do our part of what needed to happen. It was by having it there, it made ia little bit anti-climatic. So i'm very pleased to report that our employeesoverwhelmingly approved the 218 section agreement. The votes have been counted and the atu pension group had 1082 yes votes, 16 no votes with 96% turnout and they had 588 votes and 9 no votes. The results exceeded the simple majority's needed to pass. The employees did their part and we did our part earlier today to move the 218 agreement forward. It literally took a village to get these outstanding results. We really proved that working together, we can achieve anything. I want to acknowledge the uniongroups. I was really impressed with the commitment and time is to vote. It went on for - months. Transit project did a great job in guiding us through this. Evelyn and carlos, thank you for your leadership andkeeping the board informed and the legal work along the way. I want to thank the vta staff members who did work on this project to make this a success. I also want to thank my colleagues for working with theboard and finally want to thank my colleagues on the subcommittee through your guidance on this whole election process. With the successful elections behind us, we are now ready to go to the 12-18 monthswith the process of the social security administration where they need the review all the documentation to get the final section 218 in place. The employees voted, the board, you did your part to vote earlier today on consent and now it goes off to the social security administration and they need to do their work and we'll make sure we come to the board and employees to ensure that all final steps are done. The next item. Is 8. 2. A. Information item - receive the board governance enhancement process status update.(verbal report) this process was requested by the board to identify potential enhancements enhancements.I asked staff to provide a report on this very important effort which is important for the new ones. This is important for evaluating the bill on changing the composition of this board. With that, i'm going to ask jim lawson, our chief officer to provide an update.Thank you, chair. as the chair pointed out the purpose of this is to bring you up-to-date and in some casesremind you as to the governance for vta. The vta board has been concerned about governance issues for some time and establish a methodology for doing a safe assessment on a fairly regular basis in confidence through the governance committee. As you will note through the bottom of the slide, these are the basicproblems that these analysis found. It is a wide difference of level of engagement among board mmbers, some members are appointed without necessary knowledge of land use and transportation or vta itself andsome members appointed without knowing of the expectations and commitments of the position. So the board identified the need the address these issues in 2019 and oard chair teresa o'neill appointed a board enhancement committee of five members which are some members are here today charged with the best practices. After that civil grand jury report was issued and this became part of the board enhancement committee. The board enhancement committee hired and outside agency to come up with some of the findings. I will point out the bottom it slide did not change the structure and particularly transit operationboards are founded by their maximized structure and the enhancement committee came back with several recommendations. Some were not forwarded. The board enhancement committee also recommended for additional recommendations. So approximately 83 in total recommendation were forwarded to the governance for further evaluation. In march, the governance committee came up with recommendations and many are complex that include policies and procedures and administrative code. At this point as of yesterday, approximately 95% have been improved or implemented. Those implemented are shown here for you. I'm not going to read all of them to you, but they do very much concentrate on providingguidelines for new members, guidelines for new chair persons and guidelines for appointments to the board of directors. Also modify the leadership with an option to serve the one year term to cut down on the location of the chair and vice-chair. Some of the recommendations were not approved and till up for public comment and still an item for discussion. The super majority voting for some items that already do the require a majority vote along with extending the membership for the next 2-4 years. Next steps, thecommittee will continue to consider these items and here are some of the items that are yet to be addressed. We anticipate there will be a closure to this by the end of this calendar year. Some of the takeaways, the vta board has been very much involved in critically assessing the governance process working on a lengthy involved and open transparent process to come up with some recommendations toimprove the way in which the board functions in its fiduciary responsibilities to the people of santa clara county. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.Thank you for that information. With our current governance model with california appointing this board has been very helpful that is exceptionally helpful with planning and governance for the board. No board is perfect in concept. That information o provide the board to continue to enhance effectiveness resulting in this body over two years ago of aking extraordinary steps of embarking in critical analysis to identify potential issues for improvement. As the report correctly concluded, the vta governance structure is aworkable model but there are options for improvement and working for potential enhancements and valuable documents implemented. That that the bill is ill advised andon- uninformed to residents and willresult in more problems. It is telling that this board and your respective counsels were not contacted to structure such a bill. I will add assemblyman berman did contact me but in confidential phone calls didn'tsay here s what the oncerns are. And issues are to be directed with this board and santa clara county which it serves. Many agencies have taken opposition to this bill and I encourage those that haven't yetdone so, to please do so in a timely manner. The fact that he vta oard voted last year not to change the board structure, I believe last year that gives the board chair to make those appropriations to the board. Ihave a continuing ong list of things to share but in the interest of time, I will try to hold off on that. I'm going to public comment right now.Thank you, chair. we have to members of the public waiting to speak. Public speak: hi, these aregovernance issues that you have been dealing with a lot in san jos jose, mean for santa clara county.These are issues that are addressing the community. Good luck on those issues. It has been the goal in the past year to address transit operations. That was key. Good luck in how you develop bart phase 2 funding ideas where the whole point is to address our transit issues and bart 2 issues is a massive amount of money and the other issue May not be as much. If you have that compared to a year ago, congratulationsand as of last year, we had a lot of trouble of rying to bring that together. I hope we have that now and good luck moving forward. Thank you. >> thank you. roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Thank you. i'm going to use this bowl and his process is about funding. You have $200 million around this era and if you look at the box, you are going to discover that you completely ignored the $2. 35 billion hole in the budget which consist of $1. 9 million in measure a. And then 14,000 people on the side of the road.Where did you provide that and you have $105 billion on the table to fix the problem. Where did you give staff something to do something about it. I'm going to make it very clear to you. Is that the status quo is not an option. Things have to change. Please vote for ab 1091.Chair hendricks: thank you. I think that was our last public speaker. Do my colleagues have anycomments? Supervisor simitian?I have a different take on this. I think we should give him the benefit of the doubt. He is open to hearing from us. I would like to invite my colleagues to do what i'm going to do which is work with the author and extend him the courtesy of a back and forth exchange. I think that's the better path. I just want to put that on the record. Thank you.Thank you. >> council member montano.Thank you, chair. I never did meet assembly member. I do believe that all cities need to be epresented and all cities need to have a voice. I don't remember how he is drafting his bill, ut i'm also surprised if we don't have a voice, why are you oicing for us or for me. I'm just concerned, is that protocol, is that the way it's supposed to be?Again, I thought I was acting on board action that the board took last year when the board voted to take a decision to say it was not going to look at changing the structure of the board. That was a decision wemade not to go forward with that item which is essentially the same thing that is happening with ab 1091.Yeah, but see there is a new board.Like anything else, like policy that goes from before goes forward. If we want to have a discussion and this is not a voting item right here, but if there was enough interest by the board, we can go ahead andschedule to have a vote to do that. I was just going by what was policy before like any policy carries forward from one board to the next.As a new member, I have always felt that every city should have a voice. That's my concern, thank you.The only thing I will say is my understanding of ab 1091 is you would probably see a reduction in cityrepresentation. Now you have the five city groups that go on and in his bill, there are only two directly represented city people.Yes.Supervisors, they have a choice in the way they would do theirs, but there is not specific that says how that allocation would go. From that perspective, city representation gives smaller. There is a lot of work to be done n the board. Does having a smaller board make it easier? Potentially yes, but it doesn't change the work load that the vta board has.I don't agree with his bill because it does make it smaller and I want more. So, thank you.Member paul?I agree that we should take somewhat of an active role and specifically to the fact that it has an amount of input. And there are the five seats that are contemplated to be chosen by the board of supervisors that are two by the city of san jose but how the four cities have their representatives chosen. I think that it's prettyproblematic when the jurisdiction itself and people representing it and people in it aren't really taking or being invited to take an active roll in the future governance of that agency. So, you know, and I wonder to put it to a statewide vote of the assembly members up and down the state when this is our transit agency as well as a transit management agency doesn't sit well and feel like it's more of an internal issue driven by our voters and representatives. Thanks.Yeah, I think that member simitian, he made the comment that is still in the beginning stages of what's going on. It's not a complete bill. It doesn't address term length, alternates, doesn't talk about compensation, and doesn't talk about ow the city representatives, doesn't talk about implementation. It'sone of the concerns that people had is that this board had a large turnover of members potentially if this was implemented, you would have the entire board to go from the current elected people we have to a new set of people. So there are things that should could need to be looked at as part of this. Any other thoughts or comments? Okay. That concludes my report. We are going to move on to 8. 3. Are there any items of concern or referral to the administration?Actually I do have one, glen.Yeah.I know that in the past, I think it was last, when one of the items about a sum law. I know in milpitas, we have a sum law that is really low. What would be the process to have that elevated or made higher. Who do I talk to about that?We can get somebody from staff to get with you off line on ok thank you.And then, elaine, I see that a member f public raise their hand, but we already did public comments on my section. Do we do public comments on 8. 3?No, chair.Okay, thank you.Then seeing none, 8.4, are there any announcements?Not seeing any. we are going to go ahead and go to closed session. Discussing item 91 a through d. Item e was taken off in the earlier meeting. You can go to your video off and mute section and that will make it easier for us to come back when we come back from closed session. We are going to adjourn, but for the timing we had we are about 40 minutes behind from our original schedule. I'm going to give everybody a seven minute break until a quarter after to show up in the closed session so you can get a chance to get a glass of water or anything else you might need to do. With that let's go ahead andRecording was PausedAdjourn to closed session.This is elaine from the board office as a reminder to the board, igood, chair.Okay. so, we are now back in open session. We are at 9. 3, our closed session report. Evelyn tran, the general counsel will provide a report on items 9. 1a.The board member in closed session on item 9. 1a and d and no reportable action.I want to thank my colleagues and staff that stayed with us through our entire meeting. I want to remind everybody that the section 2a section thing is a great thing that we got done. And we are adjourned.