We are now reconvening to closed session report.10:35 AMWe will call it a six minute break at 10:40 to start our work session.Thank you.>>>10:42 AMPlease stand by...>>>>Council member hendricks: good morning, everyone. Our workshop meeting is now called to order. I want to thank everybody for attending today's workshop. I would like to ask the board members to unmute your mics and we'll do roll call.10:43 AMClerkClerk: abe-koga, blankley, carrasco, burke, chavez, is constantine, davis, gilmore,ings jimenez, lee, otto lee, liccardo, montano, paul, peralez, rennie, simitian, jones, hendricks.Chairperson you have a quorum.Council member hendricks: thank you. Item 2 is public comment. Please use your raise your hand for theapp. This is to discuss with the board of directors any item that is not on the agenda. I encourage you to contact the customer service department after you make any comments. Do we have any public commentspeakers?10:44 AMWe have one. blair beak man. public speaker: one public comment. That's strange. Thank you for this meeting today. I'm seeing the signs that covid is spreading across the world right now and it's very serioussituation going on in southeast asia right now. I think we better be ready and to be weary about what to expect in the bay area and san jose. Please be considering the future of the -- at the berryessa station.You can do the same exact things with 5 and 10 as with 60 plus. It really needs to be considered for our reimagined future, thank you.10:45 AMNext we have seamless bay area. Please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, this is din dina levine. I apologize for speaking. I heard about [background noise]10:46 AMWe had to mute you because there was some sort of background. We'll come back to you. Again, this is for items that are not on the agenda. Our next speaker is katherine. Please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I agree with blair ateman that we need to be very cautious about reopening because if covid is flowing in one part of the world, it's going to end up here sooner rather than later. We have aninternational airport, and we need to be able to maintain social distancing on the buses, but I keep hearing about proposals to increase sanitation. Sometimes the bus just needs sanitation and disease experts have said that sanitation campaigns in public places don't affect covid because it's an air born disease and you need to be concerned about covid in the air and not on the buses and seats. You don't get it through yourclothes and people don't lick the poles. Thank you.10:47 AMPublic speaker: thank you very much. Deanna levine. I heard that some of the directions to vaccination sites include instructions for parking but not instructions for public transportation. We would like toencourage vta to work with county health partners to make sure that there are transit active transportation directions to vaccination sites. There are disparities all across the country including santa clara countcounty, including people that are -- [ silence ].10:49 AMOkay, I think that ends the public speaker section. We are going to go ahead now with the presentation workshop. I believe it's 30 minutes, then we'll go to public comment. And we don't plan to go no later than 12:30. We are move to item on the agenda workshop items 3. 1. Information item - review and discuss the fiscal years 2022 and 2023 proposed biennial budget. Catherine and program manager are going to provide the budget information. Kathleen and franklin, are you ready to go?Yes, chair, ready.You have the floor.Good morning chair and members. We are going to give you the 2022 and 2023 biennial budget and this is an information only report and to give you highlights of the budget and to receive feedback and any additional information. I want to assure you that this is the first opportunity prior to comments before the board presentation in june. And board members will have more opportunities to review the proposed budget and at the June 3rd meeting the board will consider the biennial budget for approval. The vta board capital and operating budget every two years and our fiscal year starts July 1st. As you know serrat is a transit agency that covers bus rail and other roles such as management agency. As a result the biennial budget covers eight different funds shown here on the table. Most of these funds contain an operating and capital component where some have only one or the other. I will cover the first half of today's presentation which relates to the vta transit operating budget which is the first program listed on the table and franklinwong will highlight the four major capital programs, following that, I will discuss the five related programs and most are shown under the columns that shows operators. And then we'll be available for yourquestions and comments. Let's go to slide four. This is a reminder about the perennial challenge of thebudget and we have a limited amount of resources and we can do just about anything we want to do, but we definitely cannot do everything we want to. Developing a budget is all about making choices and settingpriorities. Let's go to slide 5. This slide highlights the major assumptions in the proposed operating budget.First, you will be gradually increasing services next year back to the prepandemic level and running the hours we used to run, but because of covid, we have been operating at 10% the capacity. Second, we aremaintaining proposed staff levels and no change to fare structure and finally the board continues to support the vta plan. This slideshows service miles and hours starting in fiscal year 19. Which was the last full year we operated normal service. You will see in fiscal year 2019, we operated over 21 million service miles and over 1. 6 million service hours. In the next column you see what happened in fiscal year 20.What you don't see in those numbers is months before the pandemic, the agency implemented the newtransit service plan and reallocated and focused resources in those corridors and was very successful in that short team for increasing ridership but after was service was closed, we cut back in service hours and miles and we did cut back some service hurs. When you look at the columns for proposed 22 and 23 for the budget, you will see that we plan to gradually add back service hours and miles and by next february, 2022, we plan to operate roughly the same number of service hours as we did in fiscal year 2019. If you look at the final column to the right, the fiscal year 23 proposed budget, you will see that our projected service hours and miles are nearly identical as they were in 2019. The major reason that we are not able to increase service miles and hours is that like all bay area transit agencies, we had to slowdown training new drivers during the pandemic. Because of social distancing requirements, we can't train as many drivers in one class as we used to. Right now we are relying on over time to put out the current scheduled service and are regularly calling out all drivers who volunteered to work over time. If we increased ourscheduled service hours without having sufficient new drivers and our schedule requires more over time than the existing drivers and willingly and be able to work will be unable to operate the service scheduled.Which means sometimes we would end up not being able to put out buses that are scheduled and people are counting on. Let's move to slide seven. This slideshows our actual ridership for the past two years and the ext two years of the biennial budget. Column eh shows the year we are currently in which is 1/3 of the ridership since two years ago. We anticipate that ridership will come back next year and increase again in 2023. Even at the end of the year if we do not forecast the ridership before the pandemic. In fact theridership will still be down by 17%. We talked with peers at our other bay area transit agencies and this is a fairly consistent assumption. I would like to turn now to projected revenues. For fiscal year 22, projected revenues totaled $514 million and in fiscal year 23, $545 million. This chart shows what makes up our transit operation budget. Except for the two small categories highlighted in red that say other and fares, allare sales related. In total sales tax related proceeds now make-up 85% of the vta's top rating revenues.Reliance on sales tax has always been and continues to be one of the largest vulnerability areas in the transit budget. The sales tax revenues always go the ame direction so in good times they increase, down times they drop and sometimes they plummet. Let's go to slide 9. Here you see 85% of our revenues fromsales taxes from five different sources. We were lucky through the pandemic because even though our sales tax revenues decreased by 12%, it's not as bad as it was originally declared. I mentioned there is some source of sales tax but some differences between them. Moving forward we have opted for aconservative approach for sales tax approach. For three of the five sources, we used projections from our tax consultations and the others from the metropolitan transportation authority commission and they are very similar to what they are projecting. Let's go to slide ten. I would like to go to the expense side of the equation. Our expenses are projected to be $521 million. This pie chart shows the major component of theexpense budget. Not surprisingly, more than 80% of the expenses are related to service delivery and I will show you the detail about what that is. About 70% of the budget goes to services to the express, a small portion for debt service and the capital transit reserves. When franklin talks in a few minutes about the capital budget, you will see $75 million for two years combined for our vta capital budget and this is where that money comes from. This slide breaks down the large sliver of the pie which is the service delivery. It's for labor, again, not a surprise. Bus rail and transit agencies are very labor intensive and you see materials, supplies and utilities, insurance, professional services. Since labor cost are the most expensive. First we nclude only cost related to existing labor contracts and no assumption beyond when they expire and theyare expiring before the end of calendar year 2022. There are no increases uilt into the budget beyond them. After the labor contracts are concluded, the biennial budgets are amended and our summary for pensions and health and retirement contributions, you can see we have 2361 budget positions including four new janitor positions. This bar chart shows revenues compared to census showing the current year and two budget years, revenues on the left side and current on the right and the numbers at the top of the bar charts show the operating balances which in each of these cases are negative. For $2. 2 million shortfall. You might ask how will we be able to continue o operate with this and for now we are using federal relief funds. Here we are showing a ten year projections. Revenues for the next ten years. The revenue luna # line is in the blue. The first parenthesis to the left and the budget forecast shortfall for the next year and now you see how that shortfall is expected to grow of over $47 million. This was a different story when we showed the ten year forecast of the last biennial budget. At that time, there were smallpositive operating balances in every year and interestingly, at that time we projected the spends in fiscal year 22 would be $423 million and that is nearly identical to what we are showing here on the left side of$125 million. The revenues were for eric to tot# -- forecast was total $545 million and now projected to reach $514 million. The problem we have in the short-term and long-term is we are very fortunate like other transit agencies we are receiving emergency federal funding to cover our deficits. To date, vta has been awarded $180 million from the emergency fund which is based on the assumption of ten yearprojections can last to 2028. However, I would like to caution, all transit agencies must make fiscal decisions for the immediate and long-term decisions as well. We'll close this section with the summary of the risks that we need to be aware of of the vta transit budget. The projections for the next two years do not include the further labor negotiations which will further increase nd we talk about the economic viability and the sales tax of that and also dangers associated with the diesel fuel utility cost and pension cost that should go much higher than we forecast. Finally the transit ridership and fare reviews are wild cards. With that, I will turn it over to franklin wong.11:03 AMThank you, kathleen. good morning, members. The following is a summary of the vta capital programs that are allowed to provide transit services that include bus stops, transit centers, light rail stations and light rail tracks and more than 400 buses and light rail cars with technology and safety features that is upthe the system. Next slide, please. As kathleen mentioned at the beginning, we are going over the four major capital programs of vta. We start with the vta transit fund capital budget as kathleen mentioned.The $75. # million of transit funds comes from the operating transfers to the capital reserve in order tofund a portion of the capital program and we left our local funds to solicit external funding to augment the total program budget of vta transit capital program to be more than $200 million. Similarly for the 2000 measure a program, we left the $411 million of the measure funds to external fund sources to 2. 1 billion.The number here of 172 million converse the program areas that the board has reviewed and movedforward. -- for the need capacity program areas is still under consideration by the board is not included in that number. Last but not least, the valley transportation plan, transportation program. With all the funds included in that program for the next two fiscal years, we proposed to appropriate about $400 million to that capital program. Across all of these major capital programs, there are some assumptions that I would like to highlight on this slide. First of all, the numbers that I have covered in the last slide basically represent plan to spending to be incurred or committed in the next two fiscal years and the appropriation that the board has approved before and could approve this time around if the appropriation has not been expended at the end of the budget cycle, they will be carried forward and will not expire. In other words, the appropriation dollar amount doesn't mean that the such amounts will be expended in the next two fiscal years. Usually, appropriation is required in order to allow the authority to want construction orprofessional service contracts to carry out the multiyear capital program. I also want to highlight that, the vta transit fund capital program is currently under review by the capital program committee in order to recommend for board approval. Once we have this proposed budget to be adopted by the board later on in this process, the appropriation for the whole two year cycle will be done in fiscal year 2022 to allow theprograms administration. Now we'll go over the first major capital program which is the vta transit fund capital program. I want to make sure that first of all, the total dollar amount here and can pass a wide area of fund sources which 2016 measure b is one of them and we mark this slide and other slides in this part of the presentation as draft because the board of directors are still considering the need capacity base of program areas of that local sales tax measure. So that is pending for the board's consideration review and approval before we could finalize this portion of the capital program. In front of us is what we haveproposed at this point under the 7 categories of this capital program with the corresponding dollars and the number of projects that could receive appropriations. A different way to look at this program is by fund sources. As I have mentioned earlier, when left with the $7 million with vta local funding that we transfer for funding to starchily fund sources from federal government, state government and other sources as well.Into now we look at the 2000 measure a program. For the fiscal year 22 and fiscal year 23 budget cycle,staff is proposed appropriations for two major capital programs. Under the bart phase 2 to second phase 2 extension and light rail extension. As you noticed here, the left column with 2000 measure a, you note is about just shy of 20% of 2. 1 billion coming from the measure. The rest we will receive something possibly from the federal government, state government and other sources. For bart phase 2, the regional measure and the eastridge extension for the program. And this is another way to look at this program in terms of the proposed capital budget by fund sources. The first major capital program I will quickly go over is the2016 measure b program. Again I want to point out the appropriation for this capital program budget just like the others that I have gone through so far. The appropriation, if they are not being expended at the end of the budget cycle will be carried forward and do not expire. Right now, the dollar amount shown here n the slide reflect the programming allocation going to hopefully be approved at the May 4 meeting for the program areas. The other art of the program which includes the need capacity based program areas will be consider by the board later in 2021. Moving on to the four major capital program covered today is the valley transportation plans, transportation program. Which provides a funding for planning and completion of highway, expresslanes, bicycle pedestrian and complete streets projects. This is a proposed budget based on the four categories that I just mentioned in terms of dollar amounts across all possible fund sources and a number of rojects that could receive appropriations from this biennial budget. Once again, I want to point out that because of on going discussion about the need capacity based programs of the 2016 measure b, this is only a draft of proposed biennial budget for this capital program, and for the other category, the table on the right is a summary of those fund sources that we leveraged to obtain funding forthese projects. Without further ado, I will turn it back to kathleen to go over the other programs on this budget.11:12 AMThank you. I just want to quickly cover five programs that are not very complicated. For measure a, franklin talked about the capital side of the measure a program, but there is also an operating component.You might remember back when we talked about the vta transit revenues and I said there were five sales tax related items. One of those is measure a which will contribute $43 million to the vta transit budget next year and $49 million the following year and the rest of the operating fund go to cover debt. With the congestion management program, it's a separate from the vta transit fund and primarily funded fromassessments to local jurisdictions. They introduced this item at the committee and that committee will review the budget in detail at the next meeting and onsider recommending it for the full board in May for inclusion in the vta budget. The board heard a presentation from staff from the department that is related to transient oriented development. Revenue from this program comes from property leases and the program has the capital and operating expenses. The capital costs are primarily related in the next two years of bart phase 2 planning and transient oriented development as well as some non-bart cod. And silicon valley valley express program. There are two corridors in this program, senior 237 corridor between i-80 and the 105 corridors in san mateo county and counties line. Revenues are associated with operating the toll roads. This is from measure b, the 2008 measure b bart operating sales tax program. Revenues for this program come from a 1 eighth cents sales tax. Expenses are used for operating bart on the phase 1 segment and bart capital program as required by the vta. This shows a grand total of all the budget or these numbers cannot be added together because they include transfers between funds. Just to finish up. I want to show the meeting that will be related to the budget over the next few weeks. This slideshows the two community meetings that we will host related to the budget starting on April 21st and again on April 27th. That slide here shows the various board committee meetings between now and the board meeting in June where we will be presenting parks and sometimes all the vta budget. This concludes my presentation.I'm available for questions. Hendricks: kathleen and franklin, thank you very much for presenting the vta biennial fiscal year budget. I'm going to public comment now. If we can go to our public speaker speakers.11:16 AMYes, chair, I would like to note that we also received public comment from gale bush, monica mlon, gale, rusty, marilyn smith, julia klein, roland lebron, tiffany rodriguez, judy thompson and -- we have the first speakers. Please accept the unmute and speak when you are ready. Public speaker:11:17 AMCan you hear me?Yes.I'm wynne tram. many riders are passed up and when schools and businesses are open, more riders will be left behind. We urge vta to return to full service by the end of this year. This is about an equitablepandemic recovery for transit riders. Vta's 80% of people are of color and we need to prioritize equity especially now after this year of horrendous and devastating pandemic. We must lso restore and increaseservice to help us reach our climate goal. You have this our attention to this matter.11:18 AMI urge vta to restore service to the transit agency and now is the time to know that they matter. Since the year 2000, vta limited route after route abandoning large segments of the population and along the worseperformance in the nation appearance counts. Do not abandon us. Public speaker: good morning, chair and members of the vta board, my name is john courtney, president of atu local 65. First I would like o speak about what I would ike to invite all the board members to have a discussion with atu 65. What I would like o talk about is social distancing is about our customers and keeping them safe and not just about theoperators. As far as not having operators, there is things we can do differently that I would like to propose.No one has talked to the unions about this thing but we can do training and have some operators out there in three weeks time, not a problem. We can also increase to incentives and there are so many things we can do that we are not doing.11:20 AMIf anyone wants to be a public speaker, if they can get their hand raised so we can understand how long the queue is.Next is raj followed by sonia. Please get when you are ready.Good morning, directors with atu 65, e also want to urge the board to increase service to 100% of prepandemic levels as soon as possible. Everyone we pass up people in the thousands. 100 percent of our staff at light rail and 93% and as far as the equipment is concerned in addition one can be complete andup running if everyone has the mechanics parts, just like seat cushions are common wear and tear items and there is no reason not to have these in stock. Additionally, we can have an additional 600 hours er week and there are several ways to address this.11:21 AMSonia, please begin when you are ready. Public speaker: hello, 'm sonia. Having vta service back up as soon as possible is crucial. This is important to be able to get home. More people are likely to ride it thandriving cars which causes pollution and people that don't have cars standing in line takes time. I don't have a car and I don't plan on buying one as long as service doesn't plummet. I urge you all to prioritizeregaining service as soon as possible into allocate enough funds for the upcoming budget. Thank you.Readeka? Public speaker: hello, I go to high school. I'm for turnout for transit but today speak as anordinary high schooler who rides the bus. Yesterday I was in the car and saw the bus cross camino like the one I take to and from school. I couldn't help it but I felt sad and withhat I remember about school is taking the bus to school and a lot of new feelings and lot of feelings of independence happened on thatbus. Now it sounds ridiculous of how much I miss taking the bus, but it matters to me. I urge you to restore transit service and encourage allocating enough funds to restore buses a sap to the upcoming budget because I want people to experience what I experienced taking that bus. Thank you.11:23 AMWe have eugene bradley followed by kevin ma and scott mace. Eugene, go ahead when you are ready.Public speaker: good morning again, members. Eugene bradley, silicon valley transit users. I would like to encourage the board to get the buses back up as soon as possible. When you have thousands of people leftbehind everyday, it's enough to fill a stadium. That's not a pandemic, but people trying to get themselves together and just want to get to their jobs and even get vaccinated. We want to work with staff to have better ideas to bring ridership back and at least bring them and keep them off the roads. We want to go with staff o make this happen. U my contact information. Thank you. Bring it back as soon as possible.Thank you.11:25 AMKevin ma. public speaker: good morning, kevin ma for transit. I'm concerned about this service because it's affecting those who want to take the vaccine. We have seen that sales tax hasn't taken that much of a hit where people are buying online than stores which is why we need to encourage local transit to get more people to move around the community since raffic and parking is a lot of things in people's mind to want to go shopping. We can provide public transit and provide for the community and to have better foot traffic. If you are waiting for a bus, you might as well go into stores in your area. That should help on the recovery.Thank you.11:26 AMScott? go ahead and speak when you are ready. Public speaker: my name is scott and i'm speaking fortransit. We are reopening and it's obvious that santa clara is opening up and we need to have this service.Residents really need if you will bus service as provided before the pandemic and possibly continue to increase it as we move along because we have many imperatives to increase mass transit and climate being one and congestion being another. Please consider returning to full service. Thank you.11:27 AMNext speaker, please. public speaker: good morning. I'm a new resident and would like to implore you to resume transit service and I know there was much highlighted in the presentation but there is also a risk of not being as aggressive about these things when people business, normal work, normal purchases, normal shopping, all that, it will be looking to transit versus car versus walking versus biking for getting around and we need to provide a way for them to provide transit because it's required we use now, we don't have for the next few years and every required that we gain is a support long-term and we are notbeing as aggressive as we can. Thank you. Public speaker: i'm here to speak against vta's delay inresuming service. Vta's reputation is ruined on the part of the public. This has been happening for many months and you are lagging behind because you are saying you are training more operators. Vta needs to use the federal stimulus to drastically increase hiring. You need to hire and train more operators to meet the demand of this recovery. You need to treat it like the emergency that it is. Recovery is not only critical to the ransit system but important for the economic recovery.11:29 AMHi, i'm sorry I can't change my name. I'm with the wheeler transit association. And even in pandemic times, I have been passed by with pass ups making me late for an appointment. All my friends and family and community mostly ride transit and they depend on riding transit because they don't drive cars. Transit takes cars off the road. Right now many people can't afford to own a car. So, transit is really reallyimperative, and I really really urge you to prioritize the restoration of transit service and allocate enough funds to restore it as soon as possible.11:31 AMI just want to thank you for all the work that you have done with the budget. A year ago, you made a strong commitment to 3 transit operations and for ll the bart issues you are considering at this time whichis massive amounts of money compared to the other vta programs, ou really focused on transit operations and how to deal with bart issues. Thank you. General manager fernandez set a course on brt issues and federal maintenance and funding can help to help with possible natural disaster and were all considerations for local city's and new staff and ll of us are making great commitments. Thank you.11:32 AMPublic speaker: hello, chair hendricks and members of the board. We are proud to stand alongside our coalition partners to allocate funds to take any necessary act in order to have vta buses and trains running at prepandemic levels. During the board meeting, staff noticed that more ridership is increasin increasing.At current transit service levels where more riders are being left behind, we can't afford this. We hope you restore this level. We hope to see you have funding and staffing to offer reliable transportation across the county.11:33 AMHello, board members. my name is jody. Arp funds are intended to improve the economic stimulus. Driving out these funds over the next years will not have the best impact. As a rider, I would say because agencies has reduced service to such a degree that it's inconvenient to take the bus. Vta should be more rationaland use the system that any rider would be xcited to take. I really hope you can use these funds to really reimagine what you are capable of. Thank you. Public speaker: hello, i'm adam, planning Commissioner From city of campbell. The city cannot grow without public transportation system. They have made great projects and this is exciting but it's fragile. If vta does not provide service, we will have riders spiraling and I encourage you to allocate enough funds. Thank you very much for your time. Public speaker: hi, this ismonica melon. I would encourage you return to 100% coverage as soon as possible. Especially with cuts and it's sad that transit riders can't get the service they need from this agency. I was reading old species and they had some great ideas. The fastest growing transit agency. I want to see you all get back to that.This is your moment. Public speaker: my name is dean. If you icrease, you are going to have more people and the more routes you have you will increase finances. Second, you say there is not enough bus operators. I know, I go to deanza college. I don't see the problem with the social distancing. Thank you. I hope you will increase the bus route. Thank you.11:37 AMWe have nathan followed by bonnie.Hello, i'm nthan. we know that ridership is increasing in the area. By not providing this service, people will stop using transit. If there is anyway to turn this into a reality, not running more buses is absolutely the way to do it. Not running more buses now will almost certainly create permanent changes. Additionally the cfo's comment for operating funds to a combination of debt service and capital funds sounds likeeverything but spent on operations. It's anything but intentional campaigns. Operators and riders are doing their part. Where is vta. I urge this board to do everything in its power to bring it back. Public speaker: my name is bonnie lockhart and i'm here with the voices for public transportation coalition and climate activist.I'm here to urge you to return service to 100% of prepandemic levels. I'm also a retired early childhood structure at mission college. I have first hand knowledge of how much suffering is caused by inadequate transit service. These child care workers need public transportation and the pass ups we have now are really impacting essential workers such as these. The speakers say the funds are available and you are going to be getting $1. 6 billion from funding that will be distributed. Please, I urge you. Live up to the equity promises you have made and make 100% restore of service your absolute priority. Thank you.Public speaker: hi, my name is anne, i'm asking to you restore service as soon as possible. The board can also release arp funds in the next budget. Rather than neglecting the needs for the people most reliant on the transit, the board should use all tactics available to them to restore service as soon as possible. If not, this will exacerbate the people's financial difficulties. The options are available and I urge the board to match them with the necessary political will. Please prioritize a return to prepandemic service. Thank you.11:41 AMNext speaker, please. richard? Hi, my name is richard antonio. I want to say that our workers are trained heroes who put their lives on the line over the past year. Other vta staff stay home and make projections.What training do they have in projecting transit ridership coming out of a global pandemic. I want to add my voice to the call for restoring 100% of prepandemic service early in the new fiscal year. You shouldexpedite hiring and training of these heroic transit workers and don't cut the public off after one minute on critical life and death matters like this. Take the time to listen to the public. Thank you very much. Public speaker: I want to build on what others have been saying encouraging you to make financial decisions to restore service as soon as possible as others have mentioned california is slated to reopen June 15th and there is going to be increased demand for people to use public transportation. I hope that you learned from the last recession where service was slow to recover and therefore ridership was slow to recover in order to be able to to increase ridership and mprove those finances, it is prudent to restore this service and bringback the ridership and bring back the revenue for these and it's also great to hear the union giving innovative ideas to address how to staff the service.11:43 AMNext speaker, please. zach. public speaker: hello, board members, this is zach from at 65. We ask that you restore service to prepandemic as soon as possible. We need to have back and it won't happen withoutservice. There are several ways to meet this demand. Atu has worked with vta to work on the challenges and we are still willing to help. Thank you.11:44 AMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hello, my name is shane weinstein. I support my brothers and sisters from at ur 65. It's important that you bring this service back. It is possible. With hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funding, it is possible. I believe the acting cfo said the federal funding will last to 2028.Riders need service right now. Vta hasn't gone through their cares act money let alone their arp fund. How would you feel if you were getting passed up and knowing that vta is holding on this money to no end. This is necessary now. Bring this back as soon as possible. Thank you very much.11:45 AMThat concludes the public speakers.Hendricks: i'm going to close the public speaker section and now I will ask my board, colleagues if they have any questions they have or any comments they would like to share.Member abe-koga?Thank you, chair. I would like to respond to the public comment we have received and please bear with me as i'm trying to get up to speed since I haven't been around very long and recently on the ta board. In regard to service levels. Actually let me start from my first question regarding the cares, charissa funding and I know we are still waiting to see what the arp funding will be. Are there any timelines by when we need to use those funds for the cities, for instance, I know the apr funds we have until 2024. But do we have any deadlines coming to vta?11:46 AMI don't believe we have any expiration date on those.With apr, will there be anything?I'm not as familiar with that. We will definitely check into it. We have not been awarded from that source yet.Right, we are still waiting, but I was wondering if there was some deadline. The cities are being told that we need to spend it by 2024. In terms of the service levels and staffing, my question with staffing, are we currently at the staffing level of 2357 staff members or did we lose any staff?11:47 AMNo. yes, we are below the number in terms of bus operators, bus drivers as well as in other staff. We have left unfilled at the non-driver left a number of positions since we started the pandemic. As far as bus drivers, we are below the number that we need in order to put this service out there and that's really related to a slowdown in training we had through the pandemic. For are a while the dmv wasn't opened and we have continued training with smaller numbers. Now, ore recently we started doubling he training classes. We can't include anymore members in the class because of the space, but we have doubled the number of classes that were doing, and we still with that project that by October when we are going toincrease our service level to about 90% of the service hours that we had prepandemic times in october. We will not have the number of operators that we would like to have to be able to operate that service so we will continue operating with using over time. Our constraint really in being able to add more service hours at that point is the amount of over time that we would need to rely on. Now, we are happy to sit down with the union more. We do discuss things regularly and see if there are ways that we might be able to use more over time or look at the ways that we are hiring and training bus drivers.11:49 AMYes. that's my comment. the quicker we can et back to service, the sooner we'll be able to capture more riders and the other thought I had with mtc and going through the formulas of disbursement with christarecently, I was hinking that getting us back to 100% service levels could potentially provide us with more funding with when we get to arpa because the formula seems to include what our current service levels areand what our needs will be. So if we can show that sooner rather than later, erhaps more funding could be received from the arpa moneys. Then the other question had separate was caltrain funding. I noticed and came up with the mtc money on the contribution because of it being successful. Are the other partner agencies also reducing their share as far as you know?11:50 AMYes. the three agencies that make-up the caltrain is san francisco, san mateo, san transand vta and myunderstanding is that all three have deleted their operating subsidy.11:51 AMOkay. great, that was a question that came up the other day. Thank you very much.Hendricks: thank you. next we have member peralez.I appreciate the conversation and the public comment. What stood out to me was john from atu that mentioned some opportunity that we can take advantage of sooner rather than later. I want to see what the engagement has been and obviously a short minute that everybody was allowed but it sounded like he was saying there are opportunities now, sort of short-term opportunities especially when it comes to thepass ups and that's something that all of us are very interested in eliminating and I don't think that should be a long-term goal as to rebuild service. We know specifically it has to do with the social distancing protocols, but if there is things we can do sooner rather than later, I would be very interested. So i'm curious from staff, how do we connect with atu and what can we do in the short-term and sounds like we have connected already and I would like to know if we can reach back out because I don't know if we have covered all the opportunities.11:52 AMYes and i'm lad you brought up the social distancing because that is really the issue. Right now if we are able to put the same number of passengers on the buses, we wouldn't have the issue with the pass ups.So as that changes, we will see some immediate improvement. As far as talking with atu, we do have regular meetings scheduled but you can never communicate enough. We are happy to reach back out to atu and talk to them specifically about the issues and to take their suggestions and see what we can do with those.11:53 AMYeah, it sounded like john was mentioning in regards to some of the challenges that you pointed out, I get it, we can't necessarily change when it comes to the social distancing protocols and I don't have an interest to make those demands. I think we are trying to be as safe as possible and follow the protocols, but at the same time, I believe we have an issue as you pointed out with training for bus operators and johnmentioned that. And if there is any other things that we can do today that doesn't involve violating any of the covid protocols, I would be very interested because it is frustrating to our riders and unacceptable it should be to us if we are doing any pass ups. And in knowing that we May have another way around that and that's what I would really like to understand and it sounded lie atu is saying that they want to be engaged to see if we can't make any difference now in the short-term and in the long-term, I too echo I think just the concerns from our community in regards to anting to be able to utilize the funding that wehave, the stimulus funding in my mind does nobody any good trying to recover from the pandemic if it's stretched out too thin over the years. I think we need to be bold in getting our service back up and making the changes that we need to make in this next coming year because that's when it really going to make adifference and you are seeing even ideas like san francisco just recently made some news in regards to talking about trying to stimulate their ridership during this pandemic and those two together doing a pilottrying to offer free transit there, and obviously we that plan here and not looking into that but what sort of incentive do we have as far as recovering, but whatever we do, we should be making the biggest flashes inthe short-term and should be really trying to make an effect with any of that stimulus now as I think it's intended to do, recognizing at the same time that I think we see some long-term impacts and we need tobe able to spread out those resources. No doubt about it. That it is not an easy decision but for me it's my preference and the most immediate one is seeing how quickly we can overcome these pass us. Becausethat is beyond frustrating. Thank you for this conversation. I will just end in asking staff if they can proactively reach out to atu and I would be interested and I think my board would too and to find out howprudent those conversations can we and if there is anything we can do in the short-term. Thank you.11:56 AMI'm going to say to be clear if we can, we will definitely work with atu. The issues about the short-term funding really it has to do with how quickly we would be able to offer reliable service. So we will work withthe union to see if there is anything we can do differently. The funding will be available and we are also quite unhappy that we are leaving people on the side of the road. That's not what we want to be doing.11:57 AMThank you. next is member carrasco.Thank you. I guess i'm only going to echo to what my colleagues have just expressed this morning, and would you repeat the number of pass ups that we are looking at?11:58 AMBecause of the social distancing guidelines, we are operating about 10-20 pest capacity and we lost 80 pest capacity on the buses because of the social distancing guidelines.This is the program officer, the pass up have been varying about 400 passengers per day and we have not seen the data since we started charging fares again but we will get that report back to the board.I imagine those numbers are going to increase as more and more individuals return to work or return to their normal experiences and things open up more and more. So that's a huge concern because we want to make sure that people have n opportunity to get back to work or get back to whatever they are doing especially if they are getting to the vaccination sites, to their appointments, to daycare, especially those who are transit dependent. So, I represent one of the most under resourced communities as many of you know, I represent district 5, the east side of san jose. This is a district where individuals are very muchdependent on catching that bus and if they are being passed up, this is just a huge concern and I don't know if you have this aggregated information as to which routes are the routes where folks are being passed up at greater numbers. Do you have a graph that we can look at today?12:00 PMWe do. I will look that up and I don't know how current it is. I will also mention that we have transit calling information on the transit app and we are trying to get that information to our riders. But membercarrasco, we are tracking it as to which routes are happening more often and we are working very hard to provide service to those routes. It's within he limitations that we have that we are working very hard to see where we can address our service. I thank you for your working and your dedication and your commitment to this very very difficult time. I have to say, i'm very interested in having a very thorough understanding of what we are intending to do with the balance of the covid relief funds. I want to make sure that we go back to atu and to the riders to draft this solution on how we can keep our riders and our drivers safe by social distancing, but also how we can get buses on those routes driving through there withgreater frequency so that we can pick people up more often and get them where they need to go. For folks who are especially transit dependent, they need to get o work and get their children to daycare centers and to their appointments and vaccination sites and for many folks, this is the only option that they have.We could not burden individuals who are, who don't have any other resources with our schedules or creategreater burdens or hurdles y imposing yet another barrier that they have to overcome by adding xyz. They have to come up with another schedule, they have to come up with another technological issue. They haveto have another smartphone app that they have to download to figure this out, is we can't continue to burden them. We just have to do hat we can within our means and if we have a balance of covid relief funds, which I see as funds that have been provided to us so that we can provide service to our moststrapped passengers, then we need to figure out how to provide those services for our folks. These are folks who need transportation, we are a transportation agency and we have to figure this out. 428 hundreds being passed up, that's going to increase and we have to do it in the safest way possible. I appreciate that and we can't have them stand out there. We have to pick them up. It's unconscionable. I truly appreciate everybody's efforts in trying to figure out everybody's situation. Can you imagine you are trying to get to work and your joe scrub depends on you showing up on time and you are losing your job during a time when you are doing everything you can to hang on. These are people by the way, who are about to lose their homes because they didn't have a job and they didn't have direct deposit and they couldn't zoom. So we had to put in place, rent moratorium, utility moratoriums, food distribution and a lot of this and they depend on that and we don't have to take mass transportation. We can work from our own living rooms and they don't have that benefit. We have to stretch this to the imagine to figure this one out.I really look forward to seeing this information. I want to know where these folks are being left behind. If you can give me that information, I really want to see that. This is what i'm hoping to see. If we can'tfigure out where to put more buses, then I want to see, is there some other rerouting that we can do.That's one. And where can we or where can we move numbers around and if we have it, why aren't we using it and we are still looking at how much in dollars we are getting.12:06 PMSome of this information was provided at the board eeting two weeks ago but we'll get you the information and to quote jay tireey, if we identify an issue then we will pass - people are not traveling at consistent days and times and our travellers and people will be going to jobs and the inability to predict is difficult. I can tell you we are working very hard and we plan to shift this as quickly as we can to move it around and kelly said earlier, if there is more ideas, we can come up with. But we are working very hard on this andagain, we will get ou more additional data from the board meeting from two weeks ago as to what the recent pass ups look like. We do really appreciate your concern.12:08 PMAgain, you are going to get me where the routes are and where those pass ups are.Yes, two weeks go that information was presented then and we will get that again as well.Thank you very much. again, i'm going to emphasize the following, and i'm sorry for repeating myself. But to leave people out on the street who are ependent on the very service that is our mission which is to get people from point a to point b in order for them to be able to provide a livelihood or to be able to go on with their daily affairs because we are the ones that provide the transportation. In addition to that these are the individuals who most likely don't have a car or a second car. But during a pandemic these are individuals who I can bet you who most likely do not work from their living room the way that most of us and i'm seeing a lot of you with your living room background, most of you and I as well. We are in a veryprivileged position. I have direct deposit. I don't have to leave my living room. These people do in order to survive. Most of these people have to depend on us put in place rent moratorium in order not to beevicted. They had to go across the street from my house in order to get two measly boxes of food to feed their children because they could not afford anything else. I want to emphasize that because if we arepassing them up, we are putting in jeopardy their jobs, what little they have left of. So I want to be very, I want to be crystal clear on that. I know that you understand this, but I just want to be crystal clear that these are individuals that we are passing up and every time we are passing them up, we are putting in jeopardy their jobs, their health, their welfare, their homes, their ability to feed their children and o keep a roof over their heads.12:10 PMMember carrasco, in the interest of time, I think you are crystal clear.12:11 PMThank you, chair. . I understand that we all have a different district that we represent and I want to be very clear that for me it's a huge sense of urgency and I understand that the board understand that as well, but given that we have a pot of money and I ant to be sure that we are very clear about the folks that are left behind. Thank you very much.I think your message was crystal clear and that is going to be part of the discussion that happens in all committee meetings. Member liccardo?Thank you, glen. just have a question about the projections of the sales tax and they will probably roll theireyes because i'm always asking about the projections. I know the word conservative would never be attached to the 17% increase one year and 15% the next. Do you have any sense as we now are emerging somewhat economically, what kind of projections you are seeing for the next month quarter for the actual experiences as those numbers are what we are seeing.12:12 PMIn May in the anf committee we will bring back the 3rd quarter and we will have the up-to-date numbers there.Kathleen, mayor ricardo, for the next three months, we will provide the preliminary report for the 3rd quarter, revenues and expenses. Usually from the state, we will only receive the complete result of the quarterly local sales tax collected by late May in this case. Basically there is the two month time for vta to get the final answer for the quarterly result. So in other words, what we are going will be preliminary and then at - the June board meeting, we'll bring back the actual results. To answer your question, mayorliccardo, in the last three completed quarters, for April to june, july, september, october, through December of 2020, we have seen fluctuations in terms of drop. We experienced a range from less than 10% as muchas 20% year over year, sales tax revenues being decreased due to the pandemic and due to the recession.So we have yet to notice like a very consistent upward trend. There have been ups and downs probably due to the on going situation about the pandemic. With the recent reduced infection rate and the gradualreopening f the economy, we believe the projections that we have received from the tax consultants are conservative. Yes, the numbers look high but bear in mind that these projected increases are from thebottom basically from what we have experienced in year 2020.12:15 PMOkay, I appreciate that and I know that everyone is struggling right now and there is no crystal and i'm concerned particularly about this year and it's a global pandemic and there are countries that don't haveeven one percent of the population with even one shot in their arm. It's going to take a while to pull us out of this thing. On this slide 14, if we can take a quick look a the that -- at that one. This chronic number incost and clearly there needs to be disruption in that. I know we have one time money from the federal government, but that will run out. Are there any suggestions about what we ought to be doing and thinking about now to address this growing gap between resources we'll have and what we are able to do.12:16 PMIn years where things are more predictable, I think there will be more things that we can say we should put n place now because of the numbers of variables. It's pretty hard to try to focus on how to get ahandle on that because if revenues come back up eventually to the pace that we were looking at when we started two years ago, we might not see these gaps growing. If they don't and we'll know that within another year to two years, we will have to look at the expense side. We did that and the board did that atlooking how you to right size service to have the service level that we could sustain. That's what we now and every transit agency in the bay area is looking at what is going o be the new normal and the level of service that we can sustain in the long run.12:17 PMHendricks.. we also said we would start to look at the business plan process and we have not done because of the gm search. That's going to be an effort that has to get started and this chart is one of thosethings that we have to look at to address.Fair point, glen. this chart includes the 6. 7 and 6. 5 increases?Correct. and we have that beyond the sales tax beyond inflation.And knowing the challenging pass ups it is and how incredibly frustrating it is for our riders. Is there likely to be an fta guidance in ways to ventilate and enable us to carry more passengers?12:18 PMI think it's really going to come down what at the county level is this considered stay safe and when can we ease some of those restrictions. I'm not aware at the vta standpoint.I'm sorry, I used fta.The state has a guidance where the operator is separated from the passengers by six feet, but otherwise it's been interpreted on a county by county basis. San francisco to my understanding, they are at 3 feet but we continue to comply with the county order and the county order indicates that it's the most restrictive. So if there is a difference in the guidelines we would apply the most restrictive and the mostrestrictive is the county's with the six feet social distancing. I want to address a couple other things where we don't want to be passing up passengers and we have looked at where we can increase frequency in the most needed routes and we have increased frequency in seven routes when we started seeing the ass up numbers go up and those were all in east san jose and gilroy. We have those lines and I can send that out to member carrasco as well, but we continually reassess where we can look at increasing the service at the most pass up routes.12:20 PMThank you, evelyn.When you send that out, could you send it out to all board members. Next we have ember constantine.Thanks, chair. I have a question on the budget and if the fare recovery box was increased to the level on the 2017 average?I can look at get you the numbers for that. Off the top of my head, I don't know but I will say for us right now, the fare box recovery is probably the lowest that it's have been. We can do that to see when we canget to that level.12:21 PMI understand and vta had the lowest or the last in fare box recovery of our peers. So I was wondering if there was any thought as to what the effect of getting our fare box recovery level would have on the budget. Has there been any discussion directly on that?Not recently.All right. I would suggest we look at that as soon as possible. Also I have a comment on what's been said.You know, I was struck by what a young lady said during public comment about how much she missed riding the bus going to school and talking to her friends and that encapsulates what we need to do as a body of getting service back up to as close to normal as possible and as safe. I don't be that anyone else has gone to describe a color if you have not seen a color before. It's an example where we need o look atour operators and our employees who work everyday in this system, drive the buses to really get an answer as to what we can do to alleviate the pass ups. I won't reiterate what was already said because it's very important but we need to look to our employees for answers and get their ideas because they live this and see it everyday. Thank you.12:22 PMThank you. next we have member burt.12:23 PMThanks, first a question on the operational side and then the capital. I really want to support the concern raised by member carrasco and others about the necessity to do everything we can in the near term toaddress the needs of essential workers and transit dependent residents. When we got this huge twodifferent huge buckets of federal dollars, essentially their purposes were I believe twofold. One is to help us through recovery from the pandemic and economic impacts of it, but the other is to really respond to the needs of those most affected by the pandemic in the near term. And i'm very supportive of putting whatever financial resources e need to address those needs in the short-term. I also want to say that I think we eed to recognize that we are in the cusp of an all likelihood of a very rapidly changing set of circumstances that are opening up towards normalcy, not necessarily achieving full normalcy in just the coming weeks, not necessarily months. And so when we look at requirements like social distancing, we are going to see that change in short order and hopefully that will have a favorable impact on safe ridership that still will reduce the pass ups and address some of these needs through just those changes in circumstances. A question quickly for staff. What is the standing of our drivers on our vaccination now. Are they fully vaccinated or have first doses almost across the board?12:25 PMI can answer that question and have that broken down. Currently for vta, e have 900 vta employees vaccinated. I will get the numbers for the operators if you give me a pmo or -- moment or two.12:26 PMSure and while you are doing that, I will continue speaking. I don't know with the opportunities to lifelineservices to help those that are most dependent on transit, bridge this period over the next weeks. The governor is saying full opening on June 15th, we are seeing a rapid acceleration in vaccinations. Just this week finally the big slug of doses that we were anticipating and all this is going to be very fluid. So I want to make sure we look at a number of near terms that we might be able to fill this gap as soon as possible.Also on the broader issue as we recover, what's going to be the impact of increasing service levels on driving ridership versus that the service responds to the ridership, and we have certainly seen in kind of a test case of how service level can be disconnected from ridership in this whole pandemic. We kept high levels of service in certain transit modes with very very low ridership. That was kind of an odd anomaly but it certainly illustrates that e can't always drive ridership through providing the idealized service that we would all hope for. I don't know if you are able to fish that up on the drivers in particular?12:28 PMI have he numbers. I don't have it on drivers but by bargaining unit. For atu, we have almost 600 partiallyvaccinated, and approximately 350 fully vaccinated and that is as a few days ago.Out of how many?If I my, evelyn, I have that breakdown by operators.Do you? okay.We have 959 operators, we have 348 partially vaccinated and 300 fully vaccinated as of a few days ago, that represents 57% of our operators.12:29 PMI'm surprised it's that low given that work category but hopefully that will be changing very rapidly and hopefully we have very strong receptivity of those operators to vaccination because hat's art of it. How do we make sure the operators are safe when they are exposed to the public and how the ridership is safe when they expose each other. Then on the capital side. We had it in slide 4 in the operating budget that shows he gap that mayor liccardo was talking about revenue from sales taxes or overwhelmingly and that it's currently projected to be significantly down from what had been projected revenues just a year or so ago. But I didn't see a slide on how that would affect our capital budget and our local share for projects because that's the same sales taxes are local share of the capital budget. So, can staff speak to that projection and what the implication could be if we do not recover from sales taxes as projected in slide 14.12:30 PMWe don't have that on the capital and the cpc has started to look at this and the agency is putting together a capital plan that we have not had and we'll be looking at the first two years and the next five years of needs and looking forward to the next 15-20 years. We don't have a full inventory of what our needs are and therefore we can't really say what's shifted because of the changes in the sales tax revenues. On the capital side though, we are not sales tax reliant the way we are here not nearly to the same degreebecause much of the funding is leveraging federal and state funding. So the sales tax issue is not to the same, we aren't vulnerable in quite the same way.12:31 PMWell, yes and no which is why I referred to the local share. In diminished local share jeopardize our leveraging for non-local shares.Yes, that is correct.That revenue decline should track even though you don't know what's changing in terms of capital project demands. The revenue decline on the local share would, think, be quite similar to what you are showing in terms of the operating share of that same set of sales taxes, correct?12:32 PMCorrect. the other thing that helps on the capital side is for instance the measure a or the measure b, we are looking at a 30 year program of projects and looking over a long-term of capital. You are right thatthere are issues if those revenues are down, but it's kind of over a longer period of time which is helpful.Well, I appreciate that but we are going to be looking at a ten year funding plan and we have this report today that showed a projected significant decline of revenue from sales taxes but applied to its operating impact. But a comparable similar decline on those same taxes for capital projects. First we aim very hardto apply that same graphing to the revenue for capital projects over ten years. In ten years, in the next ten years are a very important part of that capital spending plan. I will say that i'm modestly optimistic that economist that are predicting a very strong rebound economically nationally will be correct and that we May see an improvement beyond what we kind of had wanted to be cautious about right now, but nevertheless, I would recommend that we graph these with ranges and not ith a single line on the revenueprojection, a modified one. It's far too unknowable right now. So both on the operating revenue side on the sales tax and the ten year capital, I think we should graph them in similar ways and as a board looking atdecisions based on a couple of different scenarios and none of us knows exactly which those scenarios will play out or where in between. So those are my thoughts and comments, and I would hope that we can also really drive up the vaccination rates of our drivers. I'm frankly surprised it's not higher yet. The opportunity for drastically increase in the next few weeks and that's going to impact everything as well.12:35 PMHendricks.. I just want to note that we are close to my target on time. I want to state that. Next member is paul.Thanks, chair. I will be brief. I just want to be ure about this statement and that is to reduce the number of pass ups as much as possible and as quickly as possible and the goal is to eliminate those pass ups andrestore service to prepandemic levels as quickly and as safely as the agency can o so and look at exploring for alternative transit to quickly address this issue. While at the same time deploy in conjunction the busservice to prepandemic levels. To be clear on this last point, I support policies to produce actions to even develop alternative and innovative possible solutions to transit needs and those needs are quite evident right now but the policy decisions apply at all times going forward. Thank you very much.12:37 PMHendricks: thank you. next is member montano. Okay, let's go to member chavez.Thank you. I want to thank you for the discussion. I learned a lot. I want to talk about the projection, which is I think is right because it's going to be difficult to land the plane without that. I know with thebudget, we need to pick a number, but I do think the board needs to understand the risk and the opportunities even though we are choosing the moderate or the more conservative version. The other thing is that council member carrasco raised an important issue relative to the pass ups and I just wanted to make this point that given that you are responding to the pass ups on a daily basis by sending out additional buses and trying to respond, my request would be that the board get weekly update that acknowledges the number of pass ups during the week and the routes those were on and that should be something that everybody gets weekly and it's really important nd I know you all know that, but that is theway to keep it top of mind for all of us. I wanted to thank, and I don't know if margaret is still here, but want to thank argaret for raising the issue about arpa and it's a catch 22 if we are not assertive about the way we are directing and spending resources, we won't get them and I think is really a catch 22 and I appreciate you bringing that up and I hadn't figured that out as you did. And as we make investments, that we are going to have to be mindful because I feel like vta was so responsive to covid-19 and that in someway has been counted against us as revenues are being divided up in the region. I would like to bemuch more bold. Three additional requests that I have. One is that I at our next board meeting would request that we get an opportunity to see the train schedule of drivers and on boarding in you staff and thestrategies to increase the number of people that were getting trained to hit the goal. Our goal is to get to 100 people over the next 18 months and what is our schedule look like, and if we are impaired by thetraining schedule, how is that training schedule going to get restructured to add more folks. The last thing is the twin of that, I have one other issue after this. But the twin of that is the hiring process. So one thing that I think is going to to be very important is that we get, that the report on the training strategy is married to the report on the hiring timeline strategies because the hiring department needs to be keeping up with the training department, otherwise we can do all we could about training and not have enough people. O I want to be sure we are seeing that hiring schedule as well. The last thing that I reallyappreciate the conversation that both john courtney and raj raised about their high level of interest in helping solve these issues and I think it's a really timely discussion to have with them, and because of that, I would also be interest in when we get an update in the number of people who are vaccinated, that we also understand the sources we are using to determine the number of people vaccinated and part of the reason that I will share with my colleagues that it's important that we have some partners in the county for example where we have a relatively high r low number of people that are vaccinated and we get that from people that were vaccinated at a county or kaiser facility. I think it's important that we both understand the source and we look at tools that are going to be productive in terms of hitting that number.I do want to just say to the union and o our staff that I really appreciated the urgency at which they approached beginning the with the c and fairgrounds. So I recognize if there is a high level of interest in being vaccinated and to make sure that we are creating even more opportunities for people to getvaccinated. These would be recommendations at an if there is a final motion, that these - directions be included as they are going to be helpful to us in the future. Thank you.12:42 PMHendricks.. thank you. i'm not seeing any other hands up. To your last comment, member chavez, this is just an information item. I don't think there is an action vote here, but I can see that staff has been taking diligent notes of what you said and other comments by our colleagues here of what goes on. I want to thank all of my colleagues and the members of the public. There is clearly a lot of interest and ideas aboutwhat is going on. I want to remind everyone that there is a bunch of meetings coming up in standing committee meetings and 3 would highlight to is that of that when we are putting together agendas that there is time for meeting discussion to go on for the budget items here. I'm going to hold on until we have the standing committees here. I'm going to end this item here and move to item 4 and that is other items.Does anyone have any other announcements they would care to make? i'm not seeing. I'm going to remind everybody our next board of directors regular meeting is scheduled for Thursday May 6, 5:30 p. M. Heldvia video and teleconference. I do want to thank everyone for the very engaged thoughtful discussion we are having about the budget. Everyone is clearly on top of this and there has always been this, if there isone topic to be very engaged on is the budget and I really appreciate everyone's engagement. With tat, i'm going to go ahead to adjourn today's meeting at 12:34 and thanks to everyone who attended.