Hello vice-chair miller, how are you?Good. I was worried nobody was calling for mic checks so I sat quietly but if you can hear me --Yes.I'll hang out quietly until the appointed time.All right, thank you for being here.5:26 PMVery good to see you guys.Hey, dave. I see you're joining. Let me do a quick mic check.5:28 PMTest captions test test test test5:31 PMTestChair person jones, he recording is going. And we do have a quorum.5:32 PMGreat. good evening, everyone. The vta board of directors regular meeting of thursday, June 2, 2022, iscalled to order. Elaine, can we have roll call.Abe.Here.Lee.Here.Burt.HereChavez.Here.Davis?Hendricks?Attending.Thank you.Jain?Here.Jimenez.Present.Lee.Lee, present.Lee ing?Ricardo?Montano?Paul?Here.5:33 PMParalez? peralez.Rennie?Here.Con stan sign.Present.Jones?Present.You have a quorum.Thank you. i'll try to get everyone out of here the last two minutes of the warrior celtics game. 1. 2, order of the day. I want to note that the agenda has been revised to update recommendation for agenda item 8.5. Positioned for ab2181. Our closed session is also et into it. The first one is after the consent agenda. He second closed session will be heard after the other items. Are there changes from my colleagues? Director jain? Yes, I would like to pull item - 6. 5, strategic capital investment plan for discussion.5:34 PMOkay. and you want to place that on the regular agendaYes, please. 3All right. are there any other changes to the agenda?Seeing no other hands raised. can I get a motion and a second to approve the orders of the day with the change of item 6. 5?Change to move to approve.Second.Chavez second.All right. it has been moved and seconded. Can we have roll call.Burt?Chavez?Yes.Carrasco.Hendricks?Aye.Con stan sign?Yes.Hendricks?Yes.Jain?Yes.Gentleman minute necessary?Yes.Jones.Aye.5:35 PMLee.Yes.Ricardo?Paul?Yes.Peralez?Yes.Motion passed, thank you.Thank you. there are no awards and accommodations. And the next on our agenda is item 3, public comment. This portion of the meeting is reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction but not on the agenda. Speakers will have one minute to speak. As noted on our agenda, we will have up to 30 minutes for public comments on items not on the agenda. For those who requested to speak but were unable to address the board on item 3 due to the time limit will have the opportunity to address the board on the second public comment under other items. The law doesnot permit board action or extended discussion on any item not on the agenda except under special circumstances. Those with customer service concerns are encouraged to contact our customer service department after you make your comments. Your contact information is on the screen. Before theordoracall the speakers, those members of the public speaking, add here to the rules when addressing the board.They are on the public speaker timer slide you see on the screen. If you want to address the board on matters not on the agenda, please raise our hand now using the app or press star nine on your phone. We will now start the public comments. Theordora?5:36 PMClaire followed by brad. blare, you May be begin speaking when ready.5:37 PMHi. thanks for the meeting tonight. Among my unusual words of, I hope we can consider lessening the amount of (indiscernible) acceptable numbers in the future of re-imagining the practices and equity practices. I wanted to try to quickly mention that you know, with the gun issues going on across the country at this time, thank you, I think we've set a good standard and pace but how to address the future of gun practices. There's an upcoming u. S. Mayor's conference in nevada. I think we can offer debate for ourselves and what we're working on in the fsa area at this time. Good luck to the ideas and what I think can be teachable moments and how do we teach ourselves we don't have to explode in the future, that'simportant along with the gun safety issues themselves and gun rights restriction policy. Let's hope we can --5:38 PMI just wanted to, this is elaine from the board office, I wanted to remind the members of the public that we are on public comment. These are for items not on agenda. If your item is on the agenda, your comments will be received at that time. Next speaker is brad.I was informed that brad wants to speak to the closed session item.Yeah, I just wanted to confirm that with him chair and I would like to inform him his written comments were included as part of the packet. Theordora, i'm not unable to unmute brad so if you can unmute him for me so we can confirm whether or not he's speaking on an item on the agenda or for the closed session.Thank you.Yeah. it's an item that's going to be discussed during closed session.All right. Mr. Hashrum, we'll call you before we go on the closed session and i'll send you an e-mail as we get closer and that's after the other item.5:39 PMThank you.Thank you so much. next speaker is john courtney, please accept the unmute when you're ready.Good evening, board members; board chair. I just want to briefly say thank you for the recognition and I know a lot of effort, a lot of heart and our souls went into that and it meant a lot to everybody, so ourmembers and to our community to see the effort put into the presentation. Remembering our fallen folks so I wanted to say from the bottom of the collective and 265 heart, thank you so much for putting so muchcare into the presentation. Thank you.5:40 PMThat completes public comment.Thank you. on to item 4. we do not have items under item four, so we'll move on to committee reports.Moving on to item 5. 1, committee reports. We will take public comments for items under this section at the conclusion of the reports. For item 5. 1. A, citizens advisory committee vice-chair person howard miller is here to provide a brief report. Howard?This is elaine. I don't see vice-chair miller on the list. Speaking on to the next item.5:41 PMOkay. I still want to thank howard for what would have been an amazing report. 5. 1. B, policy reviser, kitty moore is here to provide the report.Thank you, chair jones. I am. so the policy advisory committee on thursday, May 12, 2022, received an update on assembly bill ab2181 which is 8. 5 on the vta board of directors agenda tonight. Burrman shared his thoughts on he legislation and answered committee questions and took input on the bill regarding the role of at alternates and ranked choice vote and replacing at least half of the local officials currently appointed to serve as board members with non-elected citizens with specified expertise. Next, werecommended that the vta board of directors approve the one bay area grant cycle three program and project selection criteria and $10 million for cma, cta planning and programming activities to be implemented and managed for fiscal years '23 to '26 and the pack recommended the following modifications to the proposed program. One, to allow projects to be submitted to multiple categories. Two, remove the ten points to be awarded to fix-it first projects. Three, provide a scoring measure for projects based on their merit. And four, half points for planned denser housing which achieve a balanced housingratio. Next we recommended the vat board of directors adopt the updated 2022 transit orientedcommunities policy. Following robust discussion, the committee requested edits to the policy including changing best to leading practices and add an item that would allow for onsite services including job training and opportunities for the developmentally disabled. Unhoused individuals and families, prioritizedhigh-quality transit locations and consider city defined measures or high-quality transit. Last, we received aprogrammed projects quarterly monitoring report for anuary through March 2022. The upcoming pack meeting on June 9, 2022, will be held as a zoom teleconference. Thank you.5:43 PMThat was an outstanding report and I understand howard is available now to do his report and howard, I said to you, you would have done an -- do an amazing read out.5:44 PMThis is elaine, vice-chair miller, I was reading the other attendee's list, I apologize.I was distracted conferring with staff. My fault. Good evening, vice chair constantine and members and all those participating this evening. We did hold our advisory committee and watchdog committee on May 11th. The primary focus for us on this evening was our annual audit for the 2000 measure a, crawl, llp, and the auditors did find that vat complied in all material respects with the requirements of the 2000 measure a ending June 30, 2021. The next step for us on that item is prepare the final report for the public and that's currently developed and i'll update you at our next meeting. We also had staff prepare some supplemental items. Understanding the finances of large vta challenging for the public and staff prepared us? Great charts and graphs to help express more clearly where the citizens money is going. And overall, that's etter for vta. At our regular meeting we spoke about the vta programs and it has been filtered into 6. 6 this evening. And the two main things, we had a feeling, I will put it in the category of go big or go hme. There are a lot of criteria that were listed there and the question is, like, where is the weight going to be and from the citizen advisory committee, we hope there should be an increased emphasis on non-pda complete street categories. And prioritizing complete street projects that didn't exclude the smaller cities that didn't have priority development areas so the pda serving type projects. Connectors that connect thepda's and really trying to make sure we're really complying with all the complete street stuff there, so incentivizing that. And the other thing was we wanted to give additional weight to local affordable housingpolicies. Again, it's part of, what is the emphasis? And housing is a crisis in the citizen advisory committee is acutely sensitive to that issue so we felt there should be additional. There were non-related criteria. Our next meeting, Wednesday June 8th at 4:00 and as the policy for the last few years, that will be conducted via zoom video conferencing and that's my report for this evening and I hope I didn't disappoint you, chair jones.5:47 PMNot at all. you rose to the occasion nd met the bar, so great job, howard.Thank you for having me.All right. on to item 5.1.c, I would like to thank bicycle pedestrian advisory committee chairperson stacy bnerjee for providing the board a written report. That's in the online agenda packet. For item 5. 1. D, the standing committee chair persons' report are in the agenda packet. For item 5. 1. E, there are no policy advisory board chairpersons reports. We will now take public comment on all the items under committeereports. Theordora, do we have public speakers5:48 PMYes, we have two. blare followed by todd. Blare, you May begin speaking when ready.Thank you, blare here. first, a reminder with the complete streets project work that open policy and civic protection items can be helpful in how to decide the future of complete streets projects. Believe it or not, you know, to practice civil protection ideas in street projects really gives substance and meaning to the work that you're doing and it makes something clear and easier to work on. So, good luck in how toconsider that, those issues and for your mixed income idea in housing or for your good housing issues, mixed income, I hope that the vta can take a special point and give the study to local south bay communities because mixed income in our future is vitally important and I hope e can learn how to talkabout it.5:49 PMTodd, you May begin speaking when ready.Excellent. thank you so much. I hope you can hear me. My name is todd burk and i'm the president of the homeowner's association -- palo alto which is by the california stop caltrans and we're next to a vta bus stop and during covid there was a fairly large port teapot tee placed on -- porta potty placed on our land and i'm not sure who from the vta we need to talk to about considering alternative locations for that port teapoty. We appreciate hat it provides the drivers but we want to move it a little bit in a couple of different ways so I appreciate all the hard work that you do and looking forward to working with somebody to sortthis out. Thank you.5:50 PMThis concludes public comment, chair.Thank you, public comment is now closed. That takes us to item 5. 2. General manager report. A reminder to the public, we'll take public comment at the conclusion of all the items under the gm report. Carolyn?Thank you. good evening. first I want to start off on a positive note with the monugue pedestrian over crossing. It won the california transportation foundation active transportation project of the year award lastweek. In addition the ctf award, the project has also won the 2022 excellent engineering award of the american council of engineering council in california. This pedestrian over crossing was completed in July 2021 and it provides safe and convenient edestrian and bike access by connecting the bart station transit campus and the high ensity housing, hotel, schools and shopping centers over the montague expressway.We delivered this project in partnership with the city of milipitas and they issued permits and accepting and assuming the operation of maintenance operation of the facility and vta conducted environmental clearance, securing federal and state grants and implementing the design and construction of the over crossing and executing all real-estate and agreements with the facility with the city for the facility, you know, this is really very important as we would see people crossing montague expressway in the middle of the median and getting stuck at the barrier and then jumping over that d crossing again. So, this was a very needed facility. And we're really happy that not only does it provide access to the bart station but it also to major centers on the other side of the -- of that wide line expressway. The next one, I want to talkabout is the bus operator graduation. E're happy to report that vta continues to train and graduate new bus operators. Our class of six operators graduated May 18th and they're erving our passengers and there's another class of 16 new rivers going n as we speak who are expected to graduate June 15th. We continue our compelling campaign to recruit bus operators and plus, I ask everybody spread the word ordiffer anybody interested in our website. The task force at the regional level, there's going to be an institutional pilot program and we are involved in this. And the institutional pilot program begins august of2022 and started in 50,000 total participants from san francisco state university, san jose state university, university of california berkeley, santa rosa junior college and three mid pin peninsula properties and theobjective is to evaluate the degree to which an institutional transit pass covering all the operators in the regional May increase transit ridership and meet the needs of users and institutions as compared to single agent passes and there's funding that's going to be funded to the transit agencies to forgo revenue joining this pilot. We're excited and happy that san jose state is able to participate in this program. Next, just a few external fair activities and you May ee our staff out there. I wanted to share the highlights in may.We've had a lot of success in recent months in getting some site on the issues that are covered in the media. Telmundo and fox and nbc did a story that the torch that vta members build on the members they lost May 26th. If you haven't seen them, they're touching. The 3 media also followed the demolition progress made on building b at guadalupe yard. We had a time lapse that I saw on news channels and we had the first bart contract in phase ii. We also did a feature segment with damian trejillo on nbc on our bus recruitment and it aired in english on nbc and spanish on telemundo. We had arketing efforts that's going strong. Where our current campaign is take your vta career from . 8 to point b. And the campaign thatwe're using is really trying to reflect the diversity and background of all riders as we target additional and people who don't ride. The commercials are running and we'll have exterior bus and train ads starting thismonth. And then meanwhile our community engagementment team have been busy with meetings in May and on the eastside for the bart connector project and senior outreach program is back to holding in person events. We've also held virtual meetings on? Of ur projects, state route corridor congestion project, pop-up events at the downtown farmer's market for our climate action and adaptation plan initiatives as well as for one for monterey corridor transportation plan. This month, we'll be participating in the popular viva festival where our community enjoy closed streets to walk, bike and we'll have multiple public meetings for the 2023 service plan to help establish our future transit network as vta recruit bus operators to restore service to pre-pandemic levels. I'm pleased -- please check the vta website for dates and times of those meetings and on the last items I have is a much appreciated gesture from the city of san jose council who officially proclaimed May 26th as a day of remembrance in memory of the ten employees we lost a year ago. On a Tuesday council meeting, vice-chair jones, our chair and all the attendees held a moment of silence. Had the honor to receive the proclamation on behalf of the agency as well as atu local 265 president john courtney. I believe the chair is going to provide an update on the additional, the otherMay 26th events during his report. Lastly, I would like to congratulate david hill. Our chief operating officer on his retirement and his last day is today. He served the community run and managing our operation for over eight years and we wish him well. And that concludes my report. Oh, wait. Let me go to government affairs really quickly. We don't have a report this month. We have a few items we placed on the regular agenda. And the ridership and safety and security information is in the online packet. So, that nowconcludes my report and i'm happy to answer any questions.5:57 PMThank you, carolyn. we'll take public comment for this item. A reminder, please focus your comments only on the gm report. Theordora, do we have public speakersYes, blare, you May begin speaking when ready.5:58 PMAll right. thank you for the briefing here. I didn't know about the claim that was created recently for the fallen vta workers. I think that's good idea. It helps me, I don't know, give me something to think aboutand make something feel permanent. It's n interesting idea. Thank you very much for that. And I will always be thinking about what happened on that day and how I think we can really work to change that way of thinking in order to solve our problems. I think we have to work on it collectively and I think we're starting that road to do that and here, at leaf in the bay area and I think we can set a good example for our country in how to not have to rely on mass harm to be heard. Good luck on how we can do that, thank you.Next, eugene, you May begin speaking when ready. Eugene, go ahead --5:59 PMCan you hear me?Yes.Hi, eugene, bradley, silicon valley of transit users. On behalf of our group, we want to express sorrow or the non-fallen on the anniversary of 5/26, that's the day that's going to live locally. One question for the presentations, those looks enticing, one question is, who are we replacing david hill as the chief -- as the head of operations of vta? I had a chance to work with Mr. Hill on a couple of things and I want tocongratulate hm. Who will replace Mr. Hill on an interim basis as a replacement is searched for? thank you.Thank you. that concludes public comment, chair jones.6:00 PMThank you, public comment for item 5. 2 is now closed. Are there any questions for ur general manager?And I don't see any hands raised. So, we're going to the next item. Item 5. 3, chairpersons' report. May 26th was the one year anniversary of the guadalupe tragedy and a private candlelight ceremony was held in the early morning to honor the memory of our fallen colleagues. At this ceremony, the attorney flame was lit shown here on the screen. A group of employees decided to uild the flame with a gold panel paying tribute to the ten employees we lost and give some comfort to the families of the victims and our fellow coworkers. I would like to especially thank sue cronen and janet of the bill wilson center for living for mc'ing the program. Reverend steve hasting for the prayers and vta employee william for playing thebeautiful native american song and drums as we lit the ceremonial candles. Thank you to the event organizers and volunteers and vta employees and representatives from our labor partners from planning inexecuting the event beautifully. I would also like to express my appreciation to my colleagues on the board and the employees who participated in the candlelight ceremony. I also ant to share my gratitude for the strength, courage and leadership shown by our past chair, glen hendricks and then acting general managerevelyn tran on that horrific day and on the weeks and the months that followed. Please accept the board's appreciation and acknowledgement of your efforts. Following the private cappedle light ceremony, the county of santa clara istrict attorney's office had a remembrance at the 526 resiliency center rater thatmorning. At that event, vta had a flag flown over guadalupe after the tragedy and the first responders who provided assistance that morning of May 26, 2021, was also honored for their bravery and support. May 26th will forever weigh heavy on our hearts. The ten employees who we lost on that day will never be forgotten. That concludes my report and we will now take public omment for the chair's report. Theordora?6:03 PMChair, there are no hands raised, chair jones.Thank you. all right. that takes us to item 6. Consent agenda. Item 6. 1 through 6. 4. And item 6. 6 through 6. 13. Members of the public who would like to address the board on an item on consent, please raise your hand now on the app or press star nine on your phone. Do my colleagues, is -- to my colleagues if there's someone that wants to pull an item off consent or add an item to consent agenda and we have 6.5 that has been pulled? I see director chavez.6:04 PMThank you. I would like to recuse myself from item 6. 2 and item 6. 4 under government code section 84308. Thank you.Thank you. director peralez?Yeah, thank you. similarly, I would like to recuse myself from item 6. 4 under government code 84308.Oay. are there any other abstentions or recusals? I'm not seeing any. I will open public comment for items on consent, theordora?Yes. we do we have -- before I allow claire to speak, I want to note for the record we did receive written public comment for consent agenda item 6. 7 from robert reaper. Blare, you May begin speaking when ready.6:05 PMBlare here. thank you for the word of -- words of the council person's report, from mayor jones, the previous item. For this item, I wanted to -- it looks like a hefty amount of obag funding that's possiblecoming up at this time n one of the calendar items and I wanted to note, it sounds like from the previous governance and the previous meeting before this one, here was a really interesting item that you guys are working on about how the future of funding can etter work for the mtc and the future of bay area transit and it sounds like you have come up with a great interesting formula that we're receiving much morefunding, local cities and counties can receive much more funding. You're working on a good formula for that. Good luck how you can share that with the public and be understood. It offers a hopeful future, thankyou.6:06 PMThat concludes public comment, chair jones.Thank you. we'll now close public comment for items on consent. May I have a motion and a second to approve a consent agenda? moves to approve.SecondIt has been moved by jain. seconded by I think that was jimenez. Can we do roll call.Burt?(indiscernible).Chavez?Yes.I just wanted to note for the record that chavez is recusing from 6. 2.Hendricks?Yes.Jain?Yes.Jimenez?Yes.Jones?6:07 PMAye.Lee?Yes.Ricardo?Yes. accept i'm sorry, I just joined, can I do a recusal in the next five minutes? [laughter]I'm sorry for my delay in joining in. [laughter]Okay.We'll come back to you.Yes. we'll come back to board memory -- ricardo.Yes.Paul?Yes. -- peralez.Member peralez recused on item 6. 4, noted for the record. -- member recar dough?6:08 PMWe'll give him a minute.We'll have a minute of awkward silence unless somebody wants to entertain us.I can indicate it on the next item. I don't want to hold anyone up.How much time do you need?I'm just holding up the packet now. I'm not sure which ones i'm supposed to recuse myself from. My computer is not loading quickly here. [laughter]Anybody else, i'll give anybody else a minute or two.I'll try to do this in 30 seconds. Thank you.Chair jones?Yes.6:09 PMIs it possible to take an item out of order? I'm talking about item of cncern?I was thinking the exact same thing, vice mayor. Reat minds think alike. I was looking at the agenda.That sounds great.Yes. let's take -- let's see. i'm going to take the nines out of order. 9. 1, items of concern and referral to administration. Are there items of concern or referrals to administration?6:10 PMI had one.All right. vice-chair, go ahead.Great, thank you, chair. I speak with some of our operators and they voiced some safety concerns that I would like to, that I had the opportunity to speak with our protective services just yesterday and theyinformed me that here was a presentation that was done, that was given to the sstpo committee and I would ask that that presentation be shared with the board for discussion at a future agenda.Okay. is that noted by staff?Yes, chair.Okay.I think I know what you're referring to.6:11 PMOkay. item 9.2, are there any announcements? Director cavez?Thank you, if I could, I would ask to go back to the items of concern and referral. I would like to ask that either a committee or he full board, that we do a check-in on the services being provided to theemployees. It's really connected to what, in a way what rich was just talking about but the services and mental health services being provided and support to our staff would be good to know, too, when thatother item comes back, thank you.Thank you. is that noted by staff?6:12 PMYes, chair.Thank you. director lee?Yes, thank you, chair jones. I have a similar concern. I met with one of the family members who was involved with the vta shooting, I believe her husband was one of the survivors and they were talking about trying to basically get a few days of mental health break from the ptsd incident and apparently having a hard time getting it accommodated and I wanted to bring it up to the administration I heard that and it's very serious and I wanted to make it deemed because it triggered a lot for them. I want to make sure our staff is on top of that and hopefully that issue does get addressed. Thank you.Thank you, director lee. director -- director chavez, did you have another? Your hand is raised.6:13 PMI apologize.If there's no other referrals, are there any announcements for item 9. 2? Director lee, you still have your hand up, did ou have -- an announcement.My bad! I need to lower it.No worries! that takes us to 9. 3. We were able to accommodate everyone earlier in the agenda, so we are squared away with public comments. So, we're going to go back to consent and --Yes, chair jones, I have an announcement to make and i'm not recusing myself from anything, so thank you for your patience and thank you for patience of the entire board and my colleagues. [laughter]All right. no recusal?I know, it's disappointing.6:14 PMAll right. [laughter]Okay. so, so you're voting aye.Yes, I voted aye. yes.All right. so, elaine, do we have -- are we done with the vote?Yes, chair. and motion passed for consent, thank you.All right. motion passes. so, now we're on to item 7, closed session. Our closed session agenda for tonight has been split. First closed session item that the board will discuss is items 7. 1. A, related to labor. Before we recess to closed session, are there members of the public who would like to address the board relating to item 7. 1. A?Yes, chair jones and I want to make -- I will allow blare to speak followed by john. Blare, you May begin speaking when ready.6:15 PMHi, blare beacon here. I was 3 assuming there was one closed session item about the atu issue and I don't know if there's two, but boy, if you're talking about atu issues for one of your items in labor negotiation, I don't know if it's applicable but you guys have been working really hard since April on the idea of creating good morale issues and you're involving a few union processes involved and organizations and the sciu andgood luck on how you can work on those initial ideas and really bring the atu in the process and I hope that's going well and thank you for that and it is and i'd also, as usual, is it possible to offer a timereference on how long to expect the closed session report to go so the public can know when to return?Thanks!6:16 PMJohn, you May begin speaking when ready.Good evening, john, local 265. I have been in the ransit industry for 28 years now and most of that was spent obviously in a union capacity and time and time again, I have asked that when in discipline hearing, I look at the authority and the agency and say, you're the one who hired them and a lot of times it's because there wasn't good bait on the hook to get good candidates to apply. And I think this time, I want to say thank you to carolyn for taking the initiative and agreeing with the atu to have an agreement, labor agreement that satisfies a lot of the reasons why we don't hire quality candidates and we put some good bait on the hook right now. I think we have a good program. We obviously have a good company with goodbenefits when we're all -- when machine is turning in the right direction the right way, so I think what you're going to discuss is the labor agreement --6:17 PMI have another john on the line. John, you May begin speaking when ready.Am I allowed to speak on 8.5 at this moment?No, this is for the closed session item 7. 8.Okay. i'll hold off because I would like to speak on 8. 5.Okay, thank you!Uh-huh.Chair jones, that concludes public comment. All right. We'll close the public comment for this item and we will return to open session in about 15 minutes or so. So now we're going to go to -- proceed to closed session6:41 PMRecording was PausedAnd we are going to -- please mute your mics and videos and proceed to the t [closed session]I'll do voice recognition to make sure we have a quorum. Member paul? you're here.I'm here.Thank yu.6:42 PMMember jimenez?I'm here. yes.Thank you.Member chavez, thank you.Member carrasco?Here.Member peralez?HereWe have a quorum. thank you, sir.Thank you. we're back to open session. And general council will provide the losed session report.Thank yu, chair. the board did not take reportable action in closed session for item 7. 1. Thank you.Thank yu. I don't see request from my colleagues to speak, so we'll now go to the regular agenda.First item on the regular agenda item is 8. 1, the labor agreement between vat and transit unit, local 256.Which is just the starting pay for bus operators, chief peoples will provide the report.6:43 PMThank you, chair. good evening, everyone. As the chair said, e are asking the board to approve and formally adopt an amendment to the labor agreement between atu, local 265 and vta to adjust the starting pay and paid progression for bus providers. Next slide. The projected fiscal impact of this amendment is 6.559 million over 48-month progression period and it's to be effective as of February 21, 2022. Next slide.Background and reminder, the board approved an agreement between atu and vta on January 6, 2022, with an effective date of March 7, 2022, and there were three years of wage increases of two prcent, three four and four percent and one time appreciation pay for 18 members and there was an agreement between atu and vta to further discuss the starting wages and set progression of bus operators. Next slide. Theagreement between vta and atu is to further discuss the wages and it was primarily oncerns with our ability to recruit and retain quality bus operators in vta's ranks where the additional concern at vta has high cost of living this this area, so all of our employees. We anted to align vta with other bay area transit operators. The starting pay is nticipated to be $25. 76 per hour, verses the current starting ay of $21. 80 per hour and the top pay will remain the same at 39. 64 hours and this reflect the recent labor negotiated increases of two percent and this is also we'll provide for a 36 month as opposed to 8 month to theprogressed top pay. Greg richardson will address the fiscal impact of this agreement.6:45 PMThanks, jerry. the next page, please. This shows kind of the methodology we used to determine what the incremental cost was. So, again, we looked at it over the ntire 48 month original period to make a comparison of the new 36-month verses that 48 month period. Original calculation showed 884 activeoperators. We assumed another 40 were new hires to get to the 940 operators which is considered full staff and the one point to note, of the 884 active operators, 75% were also already at the top pay, so there is no impact to those drivers as we move forward in this step progression process. And using that information, what we have come up with is approximately $6. 6 million incremental cost to vta and that's over the 48-month period. The expectation is $900,000 of that will be impacting fiscal year '22. We expect to use expense savings that's generated in fiscal year '22 to cover that, and we'll do as we have addressed before to the board, a budget amendment for fiscal year '23 and that will include impact related to this particular step pay for fiscal year '23. Next slide. This is just the acts and approve and formally adoptingthe amendment with the numbers and dates that we discussed of $6. 6 million with an effective date of February 21, 2022. Thank you!6:47 PMOkay. before we -- there the presentation and efore we take public comments, elaine, I know you wanted to -- you have your hand up.Yes, chair, thank you. I just wanted to note for the record that the taff report for item 8. 1, as well as the presentation that you just saw is now available on the online packet, thank you.Thank you! we'll take public comment.Chair, there's one hand raise by don courtney. Don, you May begin speaking when ready.Good evening, again, john, atu. Again, one whole minute is tough and I talk fast sow need to think about this one inute thing but again, I want to say thank you to the administration of vta to get this thing done.We need to start thinking about getting people back on the buses and trains and to do that, make sure you have consistent reliable services and when you're short bus operators, you're facing a dilemma. This is a good first, good first step. I think as we progress, we'll see the results of this to provide our county with good reliable service with good quality operators and i'm really encouraged by the way that this thing got done and again thank you to the administration of vta for looking at this in the way we did and to finalize it. It was a great accomplishment, so thank you.6:48 PMThat concludes public -- public comments, chair.We'll close public comment for this item. Are there any questions from my colleagues on this iem? Director hendricks?6:49 PMAre you ready for a motionYes, I am.I move that we approve and formally adopt an amendment to the labor agreement negotiating between vta and atu adjusting starting pay and pay progression for bus operators.Second.All right. we have a motion and a second. Elaine, can we have roll call.I'm sorry chair, I did not catch the seconder. Was that memory ricardo -- member sfs ricardo.I think it was board member carrasco.E has the deep voice.Not like gregs.That's true.Burt? absent. carrasco?Aye.Peralez?Yes.6:50 PMAre constantine?Aye.Hendricks?Yes.Jain?Yes.Jimenez?Yes.Jones?Aye.Lee?Yes.Ricardo?Aye.Paul?Yes.Peralez?Yes.Motion passes, thank yu, chair.Thank you. next is item 8.2, fiscal year 2022, statement of revenue and expenses for period ending March 31, 2022. The manager will provide the report.Okay. michael, you first.Okay. this is mike smith, and evening. This is the quarterly review, revenues and expenses through March 31st f the fiscal year. Left-hand column, we see revenue was $368. 6 million. That amount minus expenses of $369. 8 million resulted in a slightly negative operating balance f $1. 2 million shown at the bottom. In the table in the right hand column shows variance to the budget. Actual revenue verses budget revenues produces in variance f $9. 5 million. I need to note these values exclude $167 million of crisa and harp money not included in the budget. This produced $14. 1 million variance resulting in an overall favorable variance for the operating balance of $4. 5 million. Not shown on the screen but listed in attachment a report, revenue line items showing a variance including sta and revenues from various vta sales tax measures, and the overall unfavorable revenue variance of $9. 5 million was largely driven by tda revenuesthat were $21. 9 million less than budgeted. The experience results from the set aside of a significant amount of reserves during the third quarter to address a possible future repayment of tda if there's anadverse finding regarding sales tax derived from internet based market facilitators. Such an adverse finding would result in a retro active repayment to the state, cdtfa estimated to be around $24 million as of the end of march. In future, tda revenues estimated to be reduced by $800,000 per month. In the middle section of the table, the favorable expense variance of $14. 1 million was driven by cost that were less than budgeted, largely attributable to reduced ability to deliver work due to supply chain and labor shortage issues. And included line items for materials ask supplies, security, professional and legal, special services in a minor contribution from abor cost. Next slide, please. This slide shows the significant change in the operating balance from the end of the econd quarter to the end of the third quarter. Looking at the upper table, the operating balance is the result of cumulative actual revenue minus he cumulative actual expense. At the end of the second quarter in december, the fiscal to date operating balance was favorably$26. 8 million. At the end of the third quarter, the year-to-date operating balance declined to anunfavorable negative 3 $1. 2 million. The lower table shows the drivers of the change, during the third quarter accident unbudgeted increase and expense were for the set aside of the tda reserves and for atu,appreciation pay. Next slide. These items were covered during the presentation. Next slide. And that concludes my presentation.6:54 PMSo, we can go to the next slide. We'll come back to this one for action that's ecessary, so the other thing I wanted to make sure that this body recognized was what our expectations was for the fiscal year and the fiscal year '22. Knowing -- mike went over the third quarter information, so when you look at this particular page, we're projecting the refb news for fiscal year -- revenues for fiscal year '22 is $48,000under budget. And that's taken 3 into consideration about, what will ultimately be an aggregate $30 million reserve for the tda revenue. So, that's a pretty good story as it relates to how we were able to recover with that eserve amount being impacted for fiscal year '22. As it relates to expenses, this is where, you know, I want to say that I was hoping to have a little bit more detaile discussion osort of the service level impact. I know member hendricks, you had asked a question -- you asked a question a couple of meetingsago and not a meeting I was in, but a question was service level and what savings are generated as a result of that and when we go through the exercise, what i'm recognizing is there's a lot more to that conversation especially on the labor side. So I just simply have not had an opportunity to do a full analysis, but I will say that from an expense perspective, we're seeing service level right now which is about 85% of what the budgeted service level was anticipated to be. And so, that service level reduction to me has a theoretical change on the labor side that I need to be able to identify and then quantify any savings that are being generated or not being seen as a result of that theoretical. So that's a piece I need to follow up on and in my expectation, i'll have that for you when we review the overall fiscal year '22 informationespecially on the labor side. From a very high level, I would say that that reduction in service level right now is generating just on a wages number perspective for operators, about a $10 million savings. And that effectively is eaten up by the appreciation pay and some of the raises hat have been discussed on the laboragreements that have gone through. So, that's where it's netted out to on this page, you're seeing labor operating expense come $537,000 favorable verses the budget. I'll have more in the future as we talk but that. The other variances related to the fiscal year number, when you look at non-labor, it's a little morelinear as it relates to the service level about $6. 5 million of that variance is related to items that are more directly attributed to the operation side of the house and so that's a little bit more easily identifiable but overall, what you're looking at is for fiscal year '22, we're projecting a -- a $3. 8 million deficit compared to the 3. 7 million deficit which is good news item. We wanted to make sure everyone was aware of what we were projecting for this coming fiscal year. Next page, please. And then this is just a new update regarding the tenure projection we looked at in the past when we have had conversations about the labor piece.What was missing in this was a full view of the federal relief dollars and so I wanted to make sure this ody saw a more updated version of sort of this ten year projection using the numbers we have seen in the past with this update on the federal relief, so on the top section, it's identifying each of the different trenchesrelated to federal relief with an amount associated with the hardship that is being earmarked for different purposes, so not necessarily for operating fund needs. And so, on the bottom section which you'll see is what was the previous year, fiscal year '21 and our projected '22 deficits and then what we have looked at, '22 through '23 deficit and how the dollars as to how we have shown the federal relief dollars being used, that this cliff that we have seen from a budget deficit perspective is more like fiscal '29 than fiscal year '26.As I have said to this body before, my hope is we take a very deep dive on these federal relief dollars, identify real purpose and real need for how we can utilize those dollars going forward. Not necessarily to just simply cover the deficits but to put them into proactive purposes, so just wanted to, the board to see this updated version. And with that, we can go back two slides. And just for this recommended action here,just to review and accept the fiscal year '22 statement of revenue and expenses for the period and with that, i'll stop.6:59 PMLl right. thank you, greg and mike. We will now take public comments.Mayor, you May begin speaking when ready -- mary, you May begin speaking when ready -- blare, you May speak when ready.Blare, thank you for this item. I'm hoping as you're offering this reporting to ourselves that we can start toreally prepare for the memos and public presentations for the year 2023. And i'm hoping those reports, you know, the question at this time -- it's a war at this time so it can be difficult still but I think hopefully by the fall, you can have a very clear ideas of what can be, what we can expect in 2023 and '24. We should start to leave he era of covid and we should be able to better address the preparedness and for projects to be very honest about what to expect at that time. Good luck, how we can do that. Thank you!7:00 PMThat concludes public comment, chair jones.All right. we'll close public comment for this item. Are there any questions from my colleagues for greg or mike? Board member hendricks.7:01 PMGreat, thank you very much. I really like he condensed way you put this ogether and it is making me be a real bum i'm not on the finance committee anymore, but my first question has to do -- our comment isreally looking forward to the analysis you said that's coming about how you want to dive into more of that.I'm looking forward to that. The tda piece, when do we -- that sounds like that's a cloud hanging over ourhead. What's the timeframe we would expect to see a resolution hopefully to -- that's favorable to us?Director hendricks, I would love to give you a firm response to that question as far as a date. We don't have a clear indication of when that timing will be but based on what we have been seeing and hearingthat it was prudent for us to put this reserve on the books. Should it be favorable to us, at least there's a positive force in the future that that will come back to us and we'll be able to reflect that as a surplus and use that more effectively in the future, but right now, unfortunately, I cannot give you a date.7:02 PMOkay. that's a very negative tone to that but I respect that.Sorry about that.On the fair revenue piece, the actual verses budget is a pretty significant difference right there, so I assume that means -- that's a rider ship that's better than we thought and you know, I guess my realcomment about that is, is there a way -- it seems there's a positive message in that. All anybody hears about is, you know, transit is not growing, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot. If 3 revenue is really up that waytranslates into ridership numbers, I would hope we can get that message out to the public to reinforce to the riders that are using it, hey, keep coming and doing this, but lso to help and try the perception that thepublic has with what's happening with public transportation.7:03 PMI'll offer there's another level, onion that needs to be peeled back on the revenue piece for the fair recovery as well. Part of it is the per or the fee per ride and what we budgeted verses what we're seeing because I believe what's happening is you're starting to see more full fare verses reduced fare over the course of the past year so it has increased our average rate so that's driving that revenue number ut I need to get a little clearer on the budget number as far as what was projected for ridership verses what we're seeing today. I think those are relatively flat. Much better from previous years but budgeted wise, we're close to it but rate is driving the revenue right now.Okay. I would be interested in the analysis -- i'm hoping there's a good positive message in hearing that.7:04 PMYep, yep.The last thing, the deficit slide, I think it was slide number ven, that is very, you know, the concept of being able to look at that and projecting out what the outer years look like, I would hope this format slide becomes very common to whenever we're talking about here, we've got some -- we have to go ahead and do something that's not already in the budget. Here, this is what it is and this is the impact that action is going to have on this slide. I just think this is a good way to be able to understand the multi-year andouter year impact of the changes we've got. I really like the structure of this and the concept of what it's trying to do and I hope it becomes, like I said, a consistent document that we see whenever there'ssomething coming up that's not already included n the budget. But I think it's a good way to explain what's going on.7:05 PMNoted.Excellent job by team. thank you.Thank you!.Thank you. director ricardo.Thank you. i'm not sure you're able to hear me all right.We got you.Great, thank you. can I just ask that the prior projection the $17 million deficit, was that based on 85% service level?No, it was based on -- well. . . . It was not based on the 85. It was based on what was termed 100% service level which acquainted to $6. 6 million of both bus and rail.So -- if we took our -- i'm sorry, go ahead.No, no, that's it. I was saying that's what it as based on. Yeah.Yeah. if we took our current deficit and -- deficit and projected it at 100% service, do you know what that would be?7:06 PMNo. that's the theoretical question that i'm trying to figure out on --Oh, I see.Trying to do that labor piece.Okay. 3That's what i'm trying to figure out as far as what that number should be.Okay. thank you. i'm sorry.No, no.It was asked and answered a couple of meetings ago so I apology.Not a problem.Thank you. and then, on the change f projections about when the cliff comes, I don't know what -- I assume the sales tax revenue for you guys and it does for the municipalities in the area and I think we have seen a double digit percentage increase in sales tax revenue in the last fiscal year, is that right?Yes. I want to say it's low double digits, I want to say low double digits for this fiscal year. Yes.It's super high. [multiple voices]7:07 PMGo ahead, i'm sorry.No, no, go ahead. i'm sorry.Yeah. i'm wondering, wouldn't you want to put a big asterisk around any projections that are adjusted after a year like tat?You're saying because of what might happen in the future as not being as big or --Yes, because you know, we don't generally project market returns, for example, based on when you have a great three-month run, right.Right. I would say this, for what we're looking at here as far as projections, this is all base on the most current budget. This is not updating from a revenue perspective. The only adjustments that have been made for any projections moving forward has been on the expense side so I will say that we are going to look at fiscal '23 when we do amendment for the budget, simply to make sure that any growth from '22 to '23 is captured appropriately from a revenue perspective. It will likely be higher than the current '23 budget but the growth won't be as significant as what we have seen in '22. I firmly will be conservative from that perspective.7:08 PMOkay.But we'll look -- look at the revenue piece when we make the amendment. My goal for the amendment for '23 is to be definite neutral so as we add the expenses, I want to find either expenses to reduce orpotential revenues there for us to show as additions than in the original '23 budget.I appreciate that. I know you appreciate it as well. You know, part of my concern is and it sounds as though you haven't baked in this large increase in sales tax revenue, so that's great. Part of my concern is the regression toward the means on revenue but part of my concern is, i'm guessing? Time between now and '29, we're going to have a pretty significant recession. I know that's not something we bake into our projections. Recessions change everything so anyway. That's my --7:09 PMThank you, sir.Thanks!Thank you. I will entertain a motion.Chavez moved.Thank you.-- i'll second that.: it has been moved and second.Bert, absent.Chavez?Yes.Constntine.Yes.Hendricks is thisYes.Jain?Yes.Jimenez jimenez?Ae.Yes.Lee.Yes.Ricardo?Aye.Paul?Yes.Morales?7:10 PMYes.Thank you.Motion passes.Item 8.3 is an action item general manager through vta's insurance broker of records, willis towers.Package 2. The manager will present.Good evening, chairperson jones and members of the board. This is a very longwinded statement here, but essentially what we're looking for is to procure insurance for the bart phase ii contract package which is a tunnel and track work. It's a project specific professional liability policy. It will last the life of the program and the limits will be $50 million with a retention of $5 million and we're asking for approval of a premium amount not to exceed $15 million. Next slide, please. The insurance procurement is required pursuant with vat's board's approval of contract b, 200221 on May 25, 2022. Vta's procurement ensures potentialpremium savings through both purchasing projects -- longevity and the contract period. Next slide, please.So what is project specific professional liability insurance? It provides coverage for liability arising on any neglect act, error, mistake or omission of professional services under the agreement. It names contractoras insured. The coverage is extended to the contractor and its subcontractors, design consultants of any tier as additional insurance. The policy includes contractual liability coverage, retroactive to the date professional services were first performed and coverage with no insurance supplement. Next slide, please.I thought i'd provide this graphic that kind of explains it a little bit better and I love visuals, so if you see here, the contractor self insurance retention contribution to the policy on a per claim basis will be $500,000 and with that vta will self-insurance $4. 5 million but it's an aggregate limit. Once that limit s exhausted, the contractor has a five million through the life of the project. Provides $5 million in excess of$502 million for the life of the project which again is retroactive to the date that, professional services firstbegan which is essentially July of 2021. Next slide, please. Vta's insurance broker of record is willis watson and they're contracted to competitively market the pspl. It's dedicated to the cp contract. That means that each one of the contract packages will have its own projects specific, professional liability and insurance.And it will be maintained to completion with a three-year extended reporting period and the pspl insurance coverage must be placed prior to vta to c p2 stage one, notice to proceed one and is being collaborativelynegotiated with a contractor and it includes retroactive date of June 28, 2021, insuring coverage for every early works and for the May 2022 limited notice to proceed date. Next slide, please. What's even moreimportant is that the pspl provides a vehicle for vta to procure an owner protective professional liability insurance policy and construction of silicon valley, phase ii extension project under vs b/pac age two. The oopi, again, owners protective professional insurance names vta not the contractor and bsv as insured and it responds to differences and conditions of the pspl for a policy exhaustion or coverage within the policy terms or conditions. Next slide, please. Another graphic here. So, vta would self-insure the $5 millionunder the oppi and get another 25 excess of $5 million of oppi coverage. Again, that policy would respond if the pspl under line was exhausted or it wasn't covered under the terms and conditions of the pspl and itwill be pick up by the old ppi. Next slide, please. The overall class of the insurance for the bst extension 2 project is budgeted as an overhead expense to budget plan. Appropriation for the expenditures throughjun June 30, '22 is included in the fiscal year '22, fiscal year '23 and transit improvement fund capital budget. Staff, again, recommends the board approve a procurement of the oppi for a premium not to exceed $15 million. Next slide, please. I'm opening it to discussions and any questions that I might be able to answer, thank you.7:17 PMThank you. we're now going to go to public comments.We have one. blare, you May begin speaking when ready.Hi, thank you. blare here. I didn't want to be an alarmist on the last item and I don't want to expect in '23 in terms of natural disaster, but we're interested in we do or don't have to worry about issues in 2023. I think when we're clear about that item --Blare?Yes. i'm finishes and coming into the heart of my matter here.7:18 PMAll right.The idea is for this item, it can give us clues -- about how to prepare our insurance and bond. It's clear if we're not going to have disaster preparedness needs, why do we do that now for each other and make it clear in our memos and our government study sessions and good luck, whatever is going to be happen nothing the next few years, we make -- happening in the next few years, we make that clear. Thank you.That concludes public comment, chair jones.Thank you, we'll close public comment for this item. Are there questions for judith from my colleagues?Director jain?Yeah. I wasn't xactly clear on the pspl. It seems like it covers negligent acts mistakes or omissions and extends to the contract, so are we paying for insurance for the mistakes by the contractors?7:19 PMSo, let me explain this, in past history, sometimes the 3 contractor would procure the insurance, however it's a ine item on the project and we pay for it. In this situation so we make sure that it is in place for the life of the project and that we have? Control -- we have some control in making sure the policy doesn't lapse or the limits are exhausted, it's best for us to place a policy. Either way, we're paying for the policy, absolutely! It's part of their costs in their contract placing. This way they have removed it from the contract price and we're playing for it direct and we feel we've got better negotiating power to be able to procure it for less money. As a matter of fact, we have looked at it different ways and we have been looking into it and frankly, they were not able to get underwriters to entertain the technical policy we would like to get for this project at the cost that we are, so there will be a savings there.7:20 PMOkay. thank yu.Director rcardo? director ricardo? we can't hear you. While we're waiting -- [multiple voices]7:21 PMWe can barely hear. we can't really hear you, sam.My apologies.Now, we can hear you.Okay. i'll try to ask and if I have another problem, i'll forgo it. I'm sorry for the trouble. Just wanted to take us back to the phase I challenge we had where the issue wasn't negligence but in fact intentional fraud and i'm assuming the insurer will not cover an intentional act like that, is that right?I'm not certain on the issue that you're talking about n phase I but I can tell you under the contract and they procured their own project specific professional liability. The first layer of limit of 25 millions was exhausted 18 months before the project was completed and the additional $25 million was exhausted about 11 onths before the project was completed. Vta was sitting absolutely bare with no insurance coverage. We actually had to provide self insurance letters to bart for the rest of the project. This is extremely dangerous. Luckily, we id have our owners protect our professional liability insurance policy in place and we have placed them on notice in regard to any type of recovery we might make because there's many cross-sections going on on that manner.7:22 PMOkay. I guess the question I answer very much. It was very - helpful but in the case, for example, where you have a subcontractor engaging in fraud which is what we had before, obviously, there could benegligence on behalf of the general contractor supervising it and I guess my question would be, would this kind of policy helped us in this situation or would we be left without because it's an intentional act?7:23 PMIntentional acts certainly are covered. What it amounts to is vta has no rights to the project specific professional viability policy. We would tender our defense to the contractor in that situation. And expect them to take it over. At this point without getting into the litigation nature because that's not something Ishould, I don't think we have fared well in that regard, so that's why we have our owners protection liability carry over (indiscernible).Okay, thanks.All right. I will entertain a motion on this item.7:24 PMMove approval. chavez.Thank you.Econd, ricardo.Thank you.So it has been moved and seconded. Elaine, can we have roll call vote.Burt, absent. carrasco?Aye.Chavez?Yes.Are hendricks is itYes.Jain?Yes.Jimenez?Yes.Thank yu.Jones?Aye.Lee?Yes.Ricardo?Yes.Paul?Yes.Are peralez?Yes.Constantine.Yes.Moving on to 8.4. an item related to seamless transportation and the recommendations is on the screen.The fares officer will provide the report. Jim?7:25 PMThank you, chair jones and members of the board. This item was referred by director wallace and (indiscernible) from the planning meeting last month. As the recommendation says, this is seamless transportation and recognizing the transportation authority -- and vitality of our region. The seamless principles is the coalition of the nonprofit groups to guide -- nd pursuit transit systems that looks for work and the second principles are, all bay area has one system and make it accessible to all and allow theprices to be fair and affordable. Connect with other transportation, planned communities of transportationtogether and prioritize those reforms that will help create a seamless (indiscernible). As you know, vta is a large service in the bay area and we have a concern that some of hose principles while in general are good and appropriate and do the actions interfere for us to provide service and people (indiscernible). So, ourrecommendation is as you can see, approve these concepts. We believe this transit system represents a lifelong goal and can be provided without impacting service to our residents and transportation. That concludes my presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions and staff respectfully request a yes vote on this item.7:27 PMThank you, jim. we're now going to go to public comments. Do we have public speakers on this item?Yes, before I open the mic, I want to note for the ecord we did receive a joint letter from the phoned (indiscernible). Jason baker, the leadership group and dana and mike abramson with mountain viewsustainability. And jordan (indiscernible). The first public speaker is adam followed by tony followed by blare. Adam you May begin speaking when ready.7:28 PMOkay. I think that should be on. Hi, i'm adam and i'm a long time vta rider and i'm a light rail lines. I'm excited for 917 and making it easy to move between vta and it has been a long time coming and I encourage the board to adopt these principles and thank you for your time.Next, tony. you May begin speaking when ready.Good evening, my name is tone yo and i'm a community organizer for united america and i'm calling to support the transit principles and leading campaigns on the eastside of san jose and I learned so much about residents who rely on transportation and having principles such as fair and affordable prices and making transit affordability and accessible and bringing it together will help motivate residents to use transportation for their daily lives and public (indiscernible) should be at the heart of communities andconsistent and affordable to encourage using it and connecting the bay area which is better for the residents and it will offer more opportunities to travel and correct to other cities and these principles willput riders first and help riders to not rely on their bid so much. Thank you.7:29 PMBlare followed by sid. blare, you May begin speaking when ready.7:30 PMHi. thank you. blare here. thank you for the public comment of the previous speakers and for this item. It sounds like an interesting feature for this item. Regional issues can actually work to make fares lower, I think, also, to be included in these ideas which is interesting, which I think, you know, the ork that vta isasking about the future of federal funding issues and why crisis like muni get a bunch funding and vta and other transit areas do not, it's time we can ask those sort of questions and to bring funding to other local agencies besides muni, can open up a cheaper fares all around for the entire bay aea. So, good luck in your efforts what you're working on here to vta and it's beginning a future that's cheap and affordable and good luck.7:31 PMNext, sid, you May begin speaking when ready. Sid, you're unmuted.Hi. i'm sid. I live in san jose and i'm a regular vta rider. I just want to say that I really like the service that vta provides ithin san jose but as a transit rider, it's sometimes necessary to travel further field in the bay area and I appreciate it if the council could endorse the seamless transit principles to help further transit across the entirety of the -- the bay area, thank you.Tiffany followed by betsy followed by john. Tiffany, you May begin speaking.My name is tiffany and I oversee the transportation on behalf of the san jose university. A population ofover 40,000 people including students and employees with plans to grow that by another ten thousand by 2040, I ask you support the seaess bay area principles. We have over 50% of our population that lives insanta clara county and we pay over a million dollars to vta as a part of our smart pass program that's widely used, however, with an increasing cost of living and gas prices, people can't afford to live hereanymore and it is even more important than ever that we take action to support these principles. So, we urge you to endorse them. Thank you.7:32 PMBetsy, you May beginBetsy, i'm a member of the vta advisee committee speaking for mself. I would like to support the seamless principles as proposed and I ride transit. And I have a vta bus that shortened the two miles between here and the nearest caltrans station to me. It is fairly useful because it has nothing to do with the cal trains schedule. It's a separate fare. I would suggest that if the concern is to serve transit dependent riders that the seamless transit trans -- transits principles will delay the 40 and 50 minutes between.7:33 PMJohn, you May begin speaking when ready.Hello, john, atu. want everybody to consider and look at the details of what you're endorsing here. When you think about and read and I have dove into the details and for tv a to give up their authority, localauthority to mtc is alarming to me. We know how mtc treats silicon valley and san jose when it come to funding, by in large bart and muni gets most of the funding and most of the recognition. The frustrationwhen bart, when mtc included different areas in -- we eed to take a deeper dive. The integration are fantastic and I think the numbers are small for those that use integration but to think this will improve sanjose transit is beyond me how anybody can believe that.7:34 PMRyan.My name is ryan and i'm a member of the bicycle and -- i'm speaking with my own views tonight only. And I just wanted to give my support for the seamless transit principles and note one reason that potentiallywe might not be seeing as high ridership as we could be seeing on multiple modes is because we don't have integrated fares. We don't subscribe currently in many ways o the seamless transit principles. This is a common theme I have seen brought to me by folks talking about, talking about transferring between modes and I think you have also heard that in public comment tonight, so I think that I definitely agree with the presenter who said that we definitely think that it's possible to ove forward with the seamless transit system in keeping in mind vta's local mandates as well.7:35 PMOur last speaker is seamless bay area. You May begin speaking when ready.7:36 PMGood evening, my name is ian and i'm the policy director for seamless bay area and thank you for considering these principles. Vta can be a leader among bay area transit agencies by endorsing these principles and joining bart and the fare 3 authority and already endorse them as well as the santa claracounty, city of san jose and the city of mountain view and los galas and 72 other organizations including many groups hat's in santa clara county. This is a vision, you know, this is an important policy direction forthe board to establish. So that the vta can pursue over time different policies that can advance this. It's like vision zero and it's like having ambitious climate goals and it sets us in the direction we need to go to and it will take multi it will steps and years -- multiple steps and years to get through. Riders want to see an easy use.7:37 PMThat concludes public comment, chair jones.Thank you. we will now close public comment and go to the board. Director peralez.Thank you very much and thank you staff for bringing this forward and I want to start off my comments making sure everybody was clear because there was confusion previously 3 and we've talked about this inthe committee, this is separate from senate bill 717. His is a discussion on the principles of seamless, the seamless transit principles so I want to make this clear, these are principles that many of us on this bordendoorsed in our cities and counties and i'm happy we're finally able to have this brought forward and to mycolleagues from the congestion management district as well for their support of it. Obviously the work we do at vta but i'm cognoscente that we're a part of a larger regional network and in recognition of the work, one that's not seamless and in the south bay alone, we know at deer don station, there will be a half dozen agencies converging here and we've seen the opportunities and challenges as well and ensuring a seamlesstransportation hub and for me, not just locally but throughout the whole region, that's why it's important that we can look at these principles and embrace them through our transportation agency here in santa clara county because essentially what we're already living within those challenges, the opening of bart, xtension through downtown san jose and we can go on and on. If we want to encourage more transit use which includes us at vta, we need to make all transit user accessible and working together and so I do thank staff for the memo and bringing forth the recommendation. Not exactly what the request was, I will say that the request was bringing forth a resolution and one we had provided examples on and I know other municipalities and the city of san jose and santa clara county as well adopted in the form of a resolution but rather than kicking this out further on a further timeline, I just want to get clarification on what we'll be able to approve here. Does this particular action and this May be for our general manager, would this action hold similar authority as a resolution would?7:40 PMI'm going to pass that to evelyn. I know it is an action by the board but i'm going to ask regarding the resolution to ask evelyn tran to speak to that.Both are formal actions to the board. They would hold the same authority. One is just more formalized.Okay. great. yeah. and I -- that's what I understood. I wanted to make that clear to the public as well. And so, with that, i'm certainly in support of he direction here but I did want to see if we could remove the words in concept. I think it's redundant and these are principles and conceptual and only meant to guide, not provide direction for future implementation and so, that would be the only amendment on the actual language just removing those two words 'in concept,' that's my motion, chair if you're accepting thosenow.7:41 PMYes. do I hear a second to the motion?Jain seconds.All right. moved and seconded. Director chavez?Thank you. and I want to thank member peralez or bringing it forward. I want to ask the staff about language about in concept and I have a couple of other questions and comments.7:42 PMThank you. director chavez, the reason we put that 'in concept,' because legislation put these concepts intolegislation and at this point it would be very difficult to start to recommend that the accept that Mr. Courtney said that mpc would be directing the prevision of transit service and the fares will be -- in concept is make sure we're -- but there will be times as the principles are put into legislation where we May find the new board of directors May find this is not in accord with your ability to provide the kind of service you want to all those in santa clara county. But the concern that you have is that one size fits all and the bay area is very difficult. It's forecast, I think -- the language would be -- i'm presuming it would be difficult to accept.7:43 PMSo, in the second bullet point under the executive summary, it says vta is supportive of the principles at a conceptual level while recognizing there May be challenges with the principles through ledge vagus orregulation and reconcile difference between local and service priorities and given it's in the body pretty clearly, I guess i'm asking if you felt comfortable with that and it's a genuine question, jim. Because i'll tell you, I would be, it would make me feel more comfortable if we said, clearly that as, accept any legislation,it would come back to the board for consideration because I think that's the point that you're raising, which is that because let me just say this, one thing colleagues at jna, we had a discussion about the fiscal relationship we have with mtc right now and one of my ig concerns, my overarching concerns about our partnership with mtc is it negatively impacts, i'm concerned that we're in a situation where it negatively impacts our ability to provide services for people who are transit dependent in our community in this just this county. I want to be a part of a region, my belief is we're a donor county and that's challenging for the people that we're intending to serve. That we're responsible, not intending but responsible for serving andso, I think the language in that second bullet point -- any legislation should have to come back to the board using the principles or not. That's krits cal. Whether it came to the board of supervisors, that wasmy assumption. But hearing this discussion, it makes me a little concerned that maybe I assumed more than I should have.7:45 PMI think it's, sorry, more than the legislation. Can it be decisions that particularly you as mtc commissioners face or other areas that come in, that we have to take a look at, you know, we're trying to make surewe're not hurting service that might be, you know, more for our current essential workers or that certain trips in our area aren't considered regional, do you know what I mean where we find regional and important. We don't know where this will go.7:46 PMI guess, in the executive summary both for -- I would just maybe add that point that just says any discussion on final, either supporting a bill or a 3 specific direction at regional bodies would be discussed by this board, recognizing any - even using this framework doesn't inhibit our ability to still make a decision that we think is most appropriate for the riders in our community and regionally. Is that okay withthe maker and the seconder?Yeah. I think as I was stating in he beginning, I think that's a given. Again, I don't think this is asking tosupport any particular assembly bills or senate bills or legislation, so i'm comfortable with that.7:47 PMThank you.Yes as the seconder.Thank you to both colleagues.All right. director (indiscernible).Thank you, chair. and I appreciate the conversation. As one of the mtc state commissioners, i've beenlearning more about this and the principles, i'll say that very early on, I was part of the city's association in santa clara county that adopted -- ready to adopt these principles and as mentioned, the city of mountain view has as well but seth mentioned, there's more to the details and that's what i've been discovering during my time on mtc and so, I actually appreciated the in concept phrasing or I was actually thinking maybe even going further, similar to what director chavez's commes were in that I just had some concernsas we iscussed this further about ensuring that -- as we try to participate in a regional network, we don't end up hurting our own service in santa clara county. My, i've always felt that the more service we canprovide, the better, frankly and when people talking about schedules nd meeting up and if you can provide more service and more frequent service, you wouldn't have to worry as much about making the connections because in five, seven minutes, there's another bus or train to be had. That's my concern, aswe've had these conversations at mtc, you know, one of the challenges and i'll take for example, the integrated or the fees, the uniformed fees or fares, all the systems have different fares and the questionhas been, how do you make them uniform? There's going to be a need for supplementing for somesystems that, their fee. If we were to lower it or increase it so where does that funding come from to make those adjustments? And that's really the big question. I know there's talk about a ballot measure fortransportation down the road. Perhaps, that can -- that ould potentially solve the issue but from what I have seen in the i've been on the commission, as - we have talked about funding and frankly as we have talked about the covid relief funds? Of that funding that could go to us in the south bay for more service, it has been dedicated to the blue ribbon task force initiates which are the seamless concepts so I just want us to, I guess, be careful and as Mr. Courtney mentioned, yeah. Just be careful that we don't give up our own sustainability for the sake of being regional. I think it's important to be regional but let's remember that we are 25% of the region and frankly we're the most diverse county. I did research on this as we werehaving these conversations so I guess I would get it as strengthening our service in the south bay as being regional because we're so much of a region, so I just wanted to be a little more cautious as we moveforward so I appreciate the principles. I think they are aspirational goals but as we move towards trying to make them real, I think there are some more conversations to be had. So, I hope that we can have thatflexibility. Thank you.7:51 PMThank you. director hendricks?Yeah, thanks. so, maybe staff can try and answer this. I'm trying to understand the practical implementations of this being done. And there's, one hand is, as was just mentioned, mark mentioned, ifthese are -- as pir rational and they don't ave impacts to us, if these are practically going to tie us and make this, you know, structure how we're going to make decisions in the future, then I have a differentperspective. Does anyone have an answer they can give me on what the practical implications of adopting these are?7:52 PMI think i'll try, director hendricks. The practical implications as we talked about, and it's the big issues we have here. We don't know what the practical implications are. We decided at mtc and you have heard from silicon valley and there's some levels of opposition. We're deeply concerned that one of the 3 challenges with the current lenl vagus is if we do not do things, our funding can be (indiscernible). As your advocate in dealing with the legislature of these matters, I 3 really don't want to be told, you do approve these principles so what are you talking about? That's basically --7:53 PMYeah. thank you, you know, you often times put my concerns into words better than I do. Some of the concerns I have specifically with the 7 principles here is there's nothing about financial sustainability.There's nothing about organizational sustainability. As been discussed, you know, these could potentially generate and translate into unfunded mandates for how this goes and how things play out. In the text in the discussion, it talks about we want to take -- somebody wants to take a look at the transit fare structure but it doesn't address anything about what are the revenue source structures for the different agencies.You know, here in our county, we're not primarily fare based in terms of what goes on, so someone figures out how they're going adjust fares but we have a different funding overall revenue model source, I just seewhere there's disconnect and you know, my read of taking a look at this is run all day area transit as one easy to use system, okay. That's a big step and you know, it talks about ticketing and everything else.Putting riders first. I put riders first by trying to make sure that our organization is financially sustainability into the future. I'm not sure everybody will translate putting riders first the same way. Equitable access, align transit prices, that sounds like subsidies to me. Planning communities and transportations together, that's going to tie into our ab2181 topic about why it's important to have elected officials who are making transit and housing decisions together. And then this prioritizing reforms. I just, if these are directional attributes of where we want to go, I can be fine with this. If this is going to tie our hands and the public isgoing to come every time we make a decision, say, but remember the 7 principles, I think it's just problematic of what we're trying to do. I'm all for mom and apple pie and I think this fits into that, you know, I think some of the principles can be in conflict with other decisions we make like the decision we made earlier tonight to amend the contract that we want to have with one of our bargaining units and none of the principles should say we should do this and the principles here, you would say we shouldn't havedone it. I'm trying to understand the practical implications and I think the in concept language is important. I think the anguage that director chavez was talking about and margaret was talking about areimportant for us to maintain. I want to try and improve service for riders. But not at the expense of making us not a financially viable and 3 sustainable organization and service provider, so if somebody can help me understand how those two things are going to be able to coexist together, it would make it easier for me to say yes to this. Thank you.7:56 PMAll right. director jain?Yes. I agree with ann griffin's analogy with vision zero. Vision zero is actually extremely expensive. And theconcept of reducing deaths to zero is very, very difficult. But it's an aspirational goal and it will take a long time to get there. I also agree with betsy's comment, that the bus that comes to her place is not even coordinated with caltrain, the caltrain schedule so this concept of putting riders first is important to me that we need to make the systems convenient. The fares, everyone gets fixated on fares but our fare recovery rate is so poor anyway that I think that trying to make this system easy to use such that people like me that have the option of having my own car and I can drive everywhere if I choose but to try to get me to use transit more than I do is very admiral goal. When I think about trying to connect these different transit services, you know, if I look at the santa clara caltrans station, the boards, the electronic boardsonly announce caltrans trains, they don't announce amtrak trains and ace trains so those should all be coordinated and seamless and I like the concept of aligning the data systems between the different trains and agencies so this to me is a blurred aspirational direction and it's up to the staff to come back to us and say, we hear you, this is what is practical to do and this is what we ave money for so I don't want to be tied to, you know, having mtc dictate everything we do, but I see a lot of benefit in these aspirational goals, thank you.7:59 PMIf I May in response, I certainly appreciate the caltrans comments but I want to cautioyou, the meets that the speaker referred to, that's something that -- [multiple voices]This transit agency tries very hard to do but there's factors that impact that and we can go into that and I can explain the problems of that that will not be fixed by this but getting there is a good one. The last point you made about the information system, e do -- we have the establishment to open up information systems that can be used. We have to create another one so it's just the details (indiscernible) and comeup exactly with the right position which is, tell us what they're asking for and we'll make the decision on how we implement it. So thank you for those comments.8:00 PMThank you, director ricardo?Thanks. I just want to offer, similar to director jain and I spend a lot of time on mtc and i'm happy to support the principles and happy to vote for them today. I shared a lot of frustrations, I know with mycolleagues in terms of whether or not dollars are being distributed equitably in the region and I have expressed those concerns but this is really a question of a founding principles. The reality is more than two dozen transits systems in the bay area operating in a disconnected, disjointed way is not eccentric and it's about serving the public and I think -- i'm not a -- i'm not afraid to support the principles and there's going to be rough spots we have to work through and we'll have plenty of opportunity to weigh in when those issues come up but we've got to start at the beginning and the beginning starts with principles so I think it's perfectly fine for us to move forward here and when it gets to talking about difficult specifics and howwe're going to align fares, we'll have lots more to say.8:01 PMThank you. I don't see any other hands raised. We have a motion and a second on the floor. So, can we have the roll call vote please.Yes, chair before e --Chair, can you repeat the motion because there were some comments made of what was included or not included?So, the n concept was removed. And director chavez made a friendly amendment to basically state that any specific actions that are to be taken have to be approved by the board.8:02 PMI can read it, but I would recommend that legislation and policy positions will continue to be reviewed by the staff and the board and informed future actions by this board.There you go. any other questions? If none, can we have roll call vote.Yes. burt?Abstain due to joining lte.Thank you.Crrasco?Aye.Chavez?Yes.Constantine?Aye.Hendricks?Yes.Jain?Ys.Jimenez?Yes.Jones?Aye.Lee?Yes.Ricardo?8:03 PMAye.Paul?Yes.Peralez?Ys.Motion passes as amended. thank you.Great. thank you. now, on to item 8. 5 which is to adopt an opposed position on ab2181. And jim, external affairs officer will provide the report.Thank you, chair jones. and 3 members of the board of directors. I -- this is a report -- typically our annuallegislative program covers the positions we take on -- this was critical importance because it affects how the board is constituted. I apologize in advance for getting late to you and this is in conversations with the office (indiscernible). In an ttempt to come up with some language that's more appropriate. We recognize that assembly -- the intention is to make it more transparent and have people more in tune with the actions of the vta seated around the board. So, what the board -- and you would be replaced with a hybrid board which would consist of elected and non-elected officials and sixty elected officials and possibly eighty elected officials and the rest being members of the public with different skill sets that are prescribed in the legislation. Members would be selected for four year terms and a voting system that I think -- it would be complex and ranked choice to try to establish the representation for the (indiscernible). The county is not represented by elected officials and the city of san jose will appoint five members to possibly being electedofficials and others are not. And have alternatives. We agree with the concerns and we think that transparency and preparation can be in the framework that this board has been doing. You'll note in yourpacket there was a letter from 3 director chavez and ricardo and (indiscernible) suggesting somealternatives. We had the opportunity, (indiscernible) and they discussed these and they adequately described the concern of removing alternates and they have denied the -- the concern is this is a great training ground and it's complex matters that come before vta as a transit operator ask congestionmanagement operator and construction business. It's also helpful in terms of making sure that all of the city groups have a voice when important matters are discussed at the vta. They spend most of their timediscussing the fact that vta is advantaged by having members of elected officials within santa clara county.As you heard a little of the proceeding item, vta works diligently to maintain trying to get any kind of ashare of regional resources whether that's resources funding grants or items that can be to santa clara's benefit and we're sincerely advantaged by having elected officials throughout the county who represent an unusual county and it has a large population centered and regional differences in the small cities that are indeed quite traumatic. It's unusual for vta to propose an opposed position. But I think the result f our conversation was right, that Mr. Berman declined to pursue the (indiscernible) that ms. Trafsh these and Mr. Ricardo recommended, they indicated to us because this is coming to a head, because these will bediscussed in the state senate within the next couple of weeks, it's necessary for staff and the board have the option of taking this position. We feel that his intentions are good -- shall vta and santa clara county will be disadvantaged by the proposed board structure that is currently outlined in ab2181. With that, i'm happy to answer any questions.8:08 PMThank you, jim. we're going to go to public comments on this item.Chair, thank you. before I open it up, I do want to note for the record that we did receive written public comment from the city of mountain view and mayor, the city of sunnyvale. First three speakers are join.You May begin speaking when ready, john.8:09 PMGood evening, honorable chair, charles jones and honorable members the board, my name is john macalister. For the last eight years I was former mayor and councilmember of mountain view, I was on the vta board and policy advisory board and my last part on the vta board was chair as ad hoc committee. I would like to address two items, one is accountability and fiduciary responsibility. A lot of you areconcerned about having people elected, but if you look at -- except for the mayor of san jose, all of you are appointed. In my eight years being nvolved with the board, I haven't seen a board member lose an election due to a vta vote. What I have seen is mayors have removed board members for political reasons.That is why you need to make this thing as? -- as some say, more transparent so people look for the regional and take out politics and as long as you have cities fighting for power, 3 you'll always have --8:10 PMEugene, you May begin speaking when ready.Good evening, once again, board members, eugene, silicon valley transit users. I echo Mr. Macalister's comments. -- rose vet received letters opposed ab2181. They can be summarized as just saying, we'reafraid. Tatus quo fears change. We're afraid of change. Roosevelt, the only thing we should be fearing is fear itself. Fear that stops us from being accountable and fear that stops vta from being transparent. --?Rumors go about the south side not getting a vote. That's not true. It should include where rumors areaddressed or not in the bill. That would clarify a lot of things for a lot of people.8:11 PM(indiscernible) you May begin speaking when ready.Good evening, chair jones and givens, councilmember from the city of campbell. I'm also a member of our legislative subcommittee. In April we submitted a letter expressing interest in this topic and ideas and questions. The text that were codified have no relationship to any of our concerns. I will be attending the next weeks legislative subcommittee meeting and speaking as myself this evening, I will be recommending an opposed position to this bill and forwarding that opposed position to the council for our vote. Hank you.8:12 PMThat concludes public comment.Okay. we'll close public comment.Chair. this is elaine, I would like to all on mayor bentley. Her hand is up as well. Thank you.I'm treated as a member of public for this, so I want to share that I too am uncomfortable with thenonelected on the board. I appreciate the thought and effort that's coming into this at both sides and I want to share that I think the city selection process is probably best stayed as it is. But for making these selections during a noticed public hearing. I think board members should be committed on the board as they are to their city councils and supervisor seats for which none of us have alternates and that shows the lack of commitment that the vta is board is criticized and it doesn't take a super majority to pass thingsand it's a majority just like the rest of us in our elected positions and small city board members should be on level played field by having a member of vta staff to work for them with limited time, but okay, i'm out of time.8:13 PMThank you, murray. we're going back to -- we're going to close the public comments and go back to the board and director chavez.Thank you. I would like to move staff's recommendation and then I have a couple of comments that I want to make.8:14 PMThis is glenn, i'll second that.All right.Yes, thank you. I did want to just say to my colleagues that you know, we had a very, I thought a very thoughtful productive discussion with assembly member berman and we made a number of recommendations and he had at this time was not prepared to accept any of them and we're so close to the end of the legislative session that I think that we have to make sure our voices is very clear this is an opposed because there's no way to fix the bill because we're at such different places from assembly member berman and I want to say to my colleagues that I think he is concerned about vta and has really the best intentions but I don't believe he approach is one that I could support. Colleagues, there are just three issues, there are am I could raise but three I wanted to lift up. One is that at a regional level, we are very focused on being able to partner with caltrans and mtc and bart. And I do believe that by weakening the strength of the board, it impedes our ability to negotiate from a position of strength with any of thosepartners and with mtc, think that's in particular important and you know, and I do have concerns about senator becker's bill because I don't want more resources removed from this county. Second, as it relates to where we are in our own process, it was nice to hear from our former leader, board member john who lead along with o'neill, the effort to improve our governance and we have taken many, many steps in that direction. Think the process used for that was thoughtful, inclusive and one that should be modeled and Ithink there's improvements that need to be made and I want to highlight what mayor blankly said about staff support as an example. Third, as you all know, senator cortez put forward a bill last year to support our efforts to do cultural work in the organization. I think it's a critical importance that we complete that work prior to taking any other dramatic change. I just want to say to the board, over the last 18 months, we have had three ceo's. We've had, you know, terrible, obviously mass shooting on our campus. We've had other issues that my colleagues know that we've been discussing in closed session, there's an awful lotgoing on and I would like us to settle the organization down, concurrent to looking for ways to improve which I think we can do. Finally, I think the last thing and I know my colleagues will want to weigh in on this better but I do think there are many activities that we could take that don't require state legislation. ?Of what we've discussed with assembly ember berman, it was interesting, it was issues he wasn't interested in because his point is you guys can do that yourself and he's not wrong and we should takeanother swing at it. As chair of the board, i've spent a lot of time implementing what the subcommittees on governance asked us to do a lot of times and I think some of those, we haven't seen the fruit of ourlabor yet so I would ask for an aye vote in opposition to this bill. Thank you.8:17 PMThank you. director jain?Yeah. i'm disappointed that someone in berman was not really interested in talking with us. I did read the recommendations of my colleagues. Ricardo and chavez and I like a lot of the recommendations there. But you know, ne of the things as we've discussed earlier this year that caltrans has been, we're again, we're a onor organization to cal tracks and we're not getting our pharaoh owe caltrans and we're not getting our fair chance from caltrans. I see this is -- the vote in the assembly was 69 to 2 in favor. That's going to the senate so I don't really know where we go from here. But you know, i'll be voting to oppose 2181.8:18 PMThank you. director hendricks?Yeah. thank you. first of all, I would like to associate myself with all of director chavez's comments that she just made. I'm going to talk about this at a macro level and what this means for the sunnyvale group and the group we're in. I think this legislation is bad for vta. Here's no clear definition of what the issues are.And there's no clear definition or clarity of what success is going to be brought by moving to this bill. One of the problems I keep struggling with is what is he problem we're trying to solve? And I keep being referred to, here, there's a grand jury report and generic comments about what's going on and I think if somebody wants to move forward with something like this, we have to start saying, in essence, assembly member berman says one or more directors on the board are not doing a good job. And if that's true, rather than hearing generic comments, I would like to hear specific names. Who are myself or my colleagues who are not doing a good job on this board? You know, jim used the word, assembly member berman said we're disadvantaged by having elected officials on the board. Someone please explain to me what I have done or somebody else has done that's disadvantaged vta? I think what this really comes down to is people want different esults or different policy decisions made and they want to try and getthose by changing the people who are making the votes. Now, when we get specifically to city of 3sunnyvale and the northeast city group, so there are four small city groups, but there are five directors in that. And that is not addressed at all in assembly member berman bill. It doesn't say how the northeast group of sunnyvale, santa clara and mill pita will be represented. The appoint thes selections are specified.Without addressing how we're going to deal with the northeast city group and its bill, I don't see how thatworks. The bill removes alternates, alternates are a key mechanism that is used as part of the northeast city group. You know, there are three cities, two seats. You get two years as a proux mowrey, two ears as a pry -- as a pry primary and then alternate. I'm a good example of how alternates are used. I attended every single board meeting we had and after I came back after two years as an alternate, you saw enough of me and I was back on as a vice-chair so i'm trying to understand what is the problem with alternates that we need to eliminate them? And it's very key to how the alternates work or our city group works.Another piece that is said, there's not -- people don't spend enough time on the board. You know, last year, supervisor smity was on the board for one year. I would like somebody to explain to me how supervisor smedian wasn't an engaged ask useful and needed voice -- and useful and needed voice on the board last year so the amount of time somebody does or doesn't spend in and of it is self is not a factor of what should be looked at. The last piece i'll say is this countywide voting for the small cities. I just heard, we heard from john saying here, it's too political right now. If you want to make the appointment process political, then why would you take the city of sunnyvale and represent that whether it's an elected personor non-elected person and have every city council member in the small cities be the ones to decide who is going to represent sunnyvale? I cannot think of a more political process and making the election process ofour people more political than that piece right there. So, what this does is this just reduces sunnyvale's ability to have and bring its elected values to this board. And I happen to think the city of sunnyvale and the representation I have brought and prior members have brought have been extremely valuable as we take a look at the financial factors and things. I can very much support the counter proposal that was made by director chavez and director ricardo. But if nobody wants to talk about it, then I think all we have to do here is oppose and I just want to repeat again hat what we're trying to do is remove the political nature what goes on, one very definite wrong aspect of this is the new selection criteria that is beingproposed from the small city because it takes something that's not a very political process today and makes it annie a political process. I would encourage everyone to oppose this and go back to your original organizations and try to get your organizations there, your city councils to oppose this as well. Thank you very much.8:24 PMThank you. director abe-koga.Thank you, chair. I agree with everything that director hen direction and chavez mentioned. Them not wanting change is different from that. We did meet with assembly member berman fairly early on and wehave provided a few recommendations for change because frankly we do see room for improvement and I do appreciate, I believe, something that berman had the best intentions but the outcome hasn't been to our satisfaction. Very few if any of our recommendations were included in what has been proposed and so,that was really why we just chose as a city to take and -- an opposed position and it's really for many other reasons that director hendricks outlined. I think for me personally having been on the board here and chaired the board and then now being back as mtc rep, I think the most valuable, one of the most valuable points outlined by director chavez and director ricardo and staff recommendation is that the smallcity representatives get vta staff support. I appreciate that. I get that. I get 3 briefings from my work for mtc and that has made a huge difference in me understanding and comprehend he issues at hand and so as nature blankly had mentioned, I think, I very much support that. I think that would be really quiteinformational if we can designate some vta o help with the small city reps that don't have their own staff to be able to support their work. I'll leave it at that, thank you.8:27 PMThank you. director paul?Thank you, chair. not to be -- I agree with what my colleagues have stated. From cupertino's side, e're also not adverse to change. As the representative of the los valley cities, five of them, you know, we would ove to see more effective transit and more cohesive system built out but at the same time, we don't see howthis proposal gets us closer to that. So, I would like to eport out that our city actually has taken an official position against this bill ever since I wrote my letter which was from an ndividual perspective. So,cupertino has the jurisdiction and they're now against bill as well. Thanks.Thank you. director chavez, you still have your hand up.8:28 PMI just wanted to add to the motion that if this passes, I would like the staff to send out a letter to all the cities and the county and the cities association asking them to take a similar action and onvey theinformation to the appropriate committees as we learn what they are.The seconder supports that.Thank you.Thank you. vice-chair constantine.There was a letter sent last week but it was ratified at our meeting last night by the entire council. My position and our position in morgan hill is not to be, wanting to hold on to power as been said by somepeople. It's the fact that and I had a conversation with assembly member berman when this bill was first in its inception and I stressed to assembly member berman, my only concern was south county was represented. And and this bill doesn't guarantee that south pine is represented because it's a largeelection, it doesn't mean that a south county representative will be on the vta board and for that reason, we have asked Mr. Mr. Berman's office to work with us to get stronger language and nothing has come about. It strikes me as odd that his ork will not ork to make it better -- his office will not work to make it better and as stated by my colleagues, I would work to get it better and I would give up my seat if I thought it would make the board better and my goal is to make sure that vta provides the best service to the citizens of this county of hich i'm a part of, o our opposition is not because we want to hold on to power. Our position is because this bill is not complete. And it's about time that sacramento stops putting in rushing bills and say we'll fix it later. Us as ity officials, we ave seen that time and time again where bills have been written and we have asked for amendments because it doesn't work. This one key fits -- this is is it not conducive to actually producing effects for the public. So, again, we have tried and i'm using the clickive we as morgan hill nd vta tried to work with berman's office to come to an agreement that havingthings that will work for south county. Now, other jurisdictions have tried to do the same thing to no avail and it's just surprising that someone who has no experience with vta, has not served on any commissions and not served on any board is willing to put forth a bill without input from the vta board or this cities that it has served on. That's why myself and my city of morgan hill is in opposition of this bill. Thank you, chair.8:31 PMThank you. I don't see any other hands raised. So, we have a motion and a second on the floor. Can we have a roll call vote, please.Yes. burt?Yes.Are (indiscernible).Aye.Chavez?Yes.Constantine?Aye8:32 PMThank you. hendricks?Yes.Jain?Yes.Jimenez?Yes.Jones?Aye.Lee?Yes.Ricardo?Aye.Paul?Yes.Peralez?Yes.Motion passes unanimously, thank you.Thank you. now, we will hear the action item that was pulled from consent. And that is item 6. 5. The inaugural strategic capital plan for fiscal years 22 to 2041. The two recommended actions are noted on your screen. Steven flynn, senior policy analyst will provide a brief presentation.Hank you, chair jones and good evening, board members. I'm steven flynn, the project manager. And i'm assisted by our expert consultant grant from kimley horn. We will be brief. Next slide. Tonight is a pro year process guided by the capital program committee to develop the inaugural vta strategic capital invest. Planfor scip and the scip is a process and framework and methodology. It has information to the board and administration and the public on implications and trade-offs needed to make informed decisions. It provides mid to online vision on organizations needs and challenges necessary to balance short and long-term expend taurs. Overall, it serves as a roadmap for long-term vta business decisions and for vta to compete for scip funding. It's renewed to reflect change needs, conditions and priorities which is then used to inform the biannual budget. It is important to point out what the scip does not do. It does not fund orcommit vta to projects or preclude changes to existing projects. Next slide, pease. So, scip is a comprehensive document covering all vta molds including transit, highways, express plains, mega projectsand others. It has a 20 year height consisting of two elements shown on the slide. The first section year period, what we call the cap six which is prioritizing fiscally con trained and that equates to three biannual budget cycles and the second is the 14 year period which is a forecasted list of likely future needs. Next slide. There's two projects8:35 PMThe scip hown on the chart. capital renewal and capital expense and renewal is replacing or rehabilitating asset which is replacing a bus or building. Most project was renewal. Construction is constructing newassets such as the bart valley extension or express lane segments and some projects will go from expansion to renewal during the 20 year. Construction being completed on an express plan segment during the period and it's placed into operation and will begin tracking and predicting the needs for those assets.Next slide. Although scip is comprehensive covering all vta modes, the vast majority of projects are of the transit. This chart provides a glimpse into the magnitude and complex its of the transit assets whichincludes vehicles, facilities information, light rail and equipment and and in total, there's well over 4,000 transit enterprise assets tracked and predicted to be replaced. Next slide. With the barts silicon valley or vsb extension, it has been completed and placed almost two years ago we track and predict the renewal for the assets and some shown on the screen. They are basically new and don't need much maintenanceand under warranty. Those assets include bart cars stations, building and system components. Next slides.This illustrate some of the other categories of assets included in the scip and express plains and assets forthat include sensors and detectors and message boards and cct. There's bike lanes and complete street as -- street and assets which are few in numbers. Next slide. At this time, i'll turn the presentation over tounel who will briefly cover --8:37 PMThank you, steven.This state is good about backlog which is defined as deferred reinvestment and asset releasement or rehabilitation or annual capital maintenance. The reason for having deferred reinvestment are multiple. Itcould be staffing related. We didn't have the staff to do he project at this moment. It could be the procurement lasted longer than expected and our assets fall into past or useful life. Or it could be simply because we didn't ave enough budget to fund this particular capital budget this year. Consequences of having backlog could be something like an increased maintenance cost as an asset ages. It deteriorates and as it reaches the end of its useful life, the maintenance ost for that asset typically is higher. And that's why in fact the best 3 solution is to replace it. But there could be other issues related to increased down time and things like that. Vta has good data on all of its assets through the asset inventory process that t does annually and updates every year. And we know that evaluation of all of the transiten there prize assets is roughly $4. 4 billion of -- 2021. And we estimate that $350 million is in backlog. That's 7% of the evaluation and we consider that to be a reasonable manageable number. Similar to for example, portland in oregon. They have an eight percent backlog. Next slide, please. So, the backlog is kind of a cumulative backlog. What we did for scip, it's a 20 year project. We have the replacement needs and the orange scenario is the historical spending scenario and you can see five year trenches here, four of them to cover the 20 years. The medium scenario is what we call the maintained back clock scenario. In other words, what incremental funding would be needed to maintain the backlog t today's 7% level. And the blue is anature know is the fully uncon stained scenario. That core responds with addressing the backlog every year so you basically pay it down the first year. You assume you've got an unconstrained amount of funding and therefore you never really incur backlog because you spend it down every year but that's more expensive.Next slide. We start looking at implications that results from the three scenarios. So the firstimplementation is backlog and how does the backlog grow over time? And you can see in the orange at the bottom that this is the ontinuation of historical spending. For the first nine or ten years or so, the backlog doesn't change that much compared to today's level. But look at what happened in the second decade. In the second decade, we see the backlog balloons to a level that is very significant because it gets up to $2 billion in 2041 and these are the year of the expenditure years so they're adjusted for inflation but $2 billion is more than we have today. The reen scenario is to maintain backlog scenario and you can see that is pretty much flat. It's not 100% flat because inflation is baked in but you can see it is kept on a manageable level. Next slide. We take a look, on the next slide, we take a look at the condition. Yes, thank you. What is the other implications as the asset conditions. In the orange scenario, what you can see is to the right, the lower right column, we show the forecast of what is going to happen to vta's transitenterprise assets in terms of condition? And we don't show 100% of the assets. We show the assets that's in either marginal or poor condition so these are beyond their useful life and reached that part in theirdegradation where they're considered marginal or torn. We start in '22 of 12% in marginal or torn condition. By the time we enter '21, we reach 35% of all transit enterprise assets that are going to be in marginal or poor condition. Scenarios two and three yield far better outcomes. And we start in the same place. We start with 12% in marginal and poor condition but you can see that in 20 years, we end up roughly in the statement place with 10 or 20% of assets in poor or marginal condition. Next slide, please.This work is based on a lot of analytical kind of, you know, process that we have gone through over a matter of time and so there are two strategic considerations that come out of it. The first is having to dowith the next biannual budget cycles and in looking at the next one is fy-23 and '25, we have noticed through the call for projects that the ask is going to significantly exceed historical levels of funding. And so, the repercussions of that is we're going to need the help of the board and the cpc guidance to steer comparable decisions and we have the six priority that's were put into effect so it will be helpful but above and beyond that, there's longer term business decisions like on the electrification on the bus system, demand response system as well as the replacement of the rail system which are going to becomingincreasingly important so the general take way is future capital budgets needs to be right sized with the potentially constraints. So, looking at the difference between the current budget cycle and the fy-24, '25budget cycle, we recommend an increase in the net vta cost commitment which is the total share to about $85 million. And that's starting from a $75. 4 million figure today. Any project following above and beyond an $85 mark is going to be, have doing pushed down the road two years or perhaps scoped a little bit.Next slide, please. The second strategic 3 consideration is the fact that we would like the board to take a life cycle approach, this is kind of a strategic long-term goal, which is to support that it green scenario we were talking about in showing you here which is the medium scenario or you can call it the maintained backlog scenario. We recognize that that scenario is going to comply increased capital allocation. Not so much, it's not going to make a huge difference over the last five to eight years but we know that in the long-term, there's? Ajor capital needs that are in the horizon so it's going to be important to keethat strategic consideration in mind. Next slide and back to you, steven.8:45 PMThank you, unel. i'll wrap up with closing comments. First, this does not make policy but it implements the board's priorities. Second, it's responsibility and flexible and timely since it's evaluated every two years and adjusted as necessary. And last, what makes these projects a reality is when they are funded but the biannual budget. Request actions are first to approve the inaugural scif for fiscal years 2022 through 2041 to guide vta's long-term investment in its capital assets and second, as mentioned, direct staff to pursue the medium scenario as a future goal and future plans and budgets to maintain capital asset renewal backlog at current levels or less and with that, i'll close and we would be glad to answer any questions.8:46 PMThank you, steven for that report. We'll take public comments.No public comment.We'll go back to the board. director jain.Yes. I was asked -- I requested this to be pulled because I think these numbers are very important. I'm really pleased that we did do this inaugural scip and we are looking 20 years down the road because they talk about the backlog ballooning to $2 billion if we maintain funding at current levels. And that's pretty scary to me. And so, a couple of things. Can you go back to slide nine? So here on slide nine, what youy is the orange is maintain -- what you see is the orange maintaining the levels and it's increasing our expenditure with inflation and what we're being asked to do is to adopt the green, which you can see the green here triples in width here in fiscal 2027 and then it doubles again in '31. So, when I read from the report, it says quote, in the medium scenario, assuming that vta maintains the level of state level and state of good repair bag log over 20 years, scip has an increase from $92 million per year during the first five year period to $258 million per year during the fourth five year period. We're saying our capitalaverage annual capital expenses will go up by $92 million per year to stay in the green category. That prevents us from having a backlog of $2 billion. I just want to make sure that that's what we agreed to.There was a lide I had requested that didn't actually show up here. And hat was investment expenditures by category. I don't know if you can pull it up. It was page 33 in the packet. I don't know if staff was prepared. I'd asked for it but fundamentally what it ays is that in 2035, we will have to replace all our light rail vehicles and that's a huge expenditure of $90 million. And I was -- I was surprised that we're not planning for that. We don't build up reserves to lan for these expenditures that we know are going to happen, that we're going to be retiring light rail vehicles and I think in 2032, we have big expense and I can't read it from my chart here but I just think it's important that we, you know, and the report says, our capital needs have been flow. So when you have anything that flows, you need to have reserves to level things out. So, the reason I pulled this because I think it's very important for us to know what we're agreeing to if we agree to the medium scenario and I know that it don't talk about funding, the varioussources of funding are -- primarily measure a and 'measure b' and congestion management program, valley transportation plan and so on, but one of the things that was discussed was the ability to raise money from our tod development. I think we have 200 acres on 26 vta tod sites but we just approved thetoc and tod where we're trying to get to 25% affordable housing at 60% ami and a total of 40% affordable housing. So if we're going o achieve that, we can't charge a lot of money for leases for these properties ifwe're going to try and hit these affordability levels so you see a huge funding gap and I would like for staff to sort of explain how e get that? Is that all going to be state and federal grants? Or and our sort of goals for getting reserves. Thank you.8:51 PMThank you. greg?Thank yu, Mr. Chair. so, member jain, i'll attempt to respond to your comments and I think from the conversation we had the other day, I can't say that I disagree or there's issues that exist from a fundingperspective. The thing we want to make sure that's understood 3 from the board's perspective is this document is really meant to do the things that you're requesting, that's really -- that you're questioning and we want it to be a document that allows us to come forward and maybe it's a list of projects or a set of priorities that we're simply putting in place, this process that ensures that we're going to come to this board and we're going to have these conversations to make sure we're prioritizing appropriately and when issues to exist that we might see on the horizon that? Of those difficult decisions start being surfaced to where we have to start making decisions and so I think from a reserve perspective, you know, I thinkhistorically, you're spot on. There really is no capital reserve. But that doesn't mean we're not going to have one going forward. I don't want that to be misunderstood that just because we haven't in the past,we won't do it going forward. It will come down to where does that reserve come from. So when an opportunity presents itself where there's additional dollars available o us whether it's through budget saves or one time item we prioritize the need for that from a capital perspective -- rather than anotherconversation. We have to be aware of and it should be top of mind forever us to identify those opportunities -- top of mind for us to identify those opportunities. The other thing I would just communicate to the board and it's a little different perspective of where you're seeing the green, thismedium scenario, what our take on this is from a board perspective, I can't guarantee you that we're going to be able to fund either the orange or the green. I can't make that statement today. But what I want to be able to do is say that the board is electing us to make sure that we're doing everything we can to attain that green medium -- medium scenario and in this 20 year horizon -- if we're not able to address it, we need to explain why that's happening, what mitigation is going to be taken to offset whatever those issues are or explain to you that we've got assets that's in better condition and maybe the backlog isn't as critical today as it will be and we can plan for it. I rather the board take a position that's a little bit more aggressive, that assures that we're pushing for that rather than that ower level, I can call it lower level on the low scenario, so. . . . Those are my comments, thank yu.8:54 PMThank you. director jin, do you have an additional question?No. that's -- these are discussions we have had and I wanted to make sure the entire board was clear on where we're going and I think i'm really pleased that we had his scip and we're addressing the issues head on. Thank you.Thank you. director hendricks?8:55 PMYeah, thank you. I want to, I want to thank director suds or jain for bringing this and pulling this item.Mostly because I want to thank staff for the work that they've done. I was the chair of the cpp last year that worked on this and produced this. I think the board knew this was one of the work products. The issue we have is, we never had an scip before and this is part of the process. Nd by now having this and having a document that talks about what -- what i'll call our unfunded liabilities, now we can go ahead and staff can go forward nd come back with plans and we can go ahead and address the issues. So, I don't view this as that, you know, if anything was done wrong, it was decades ago whether -- decades ago when theydidn't produce this. We're putting this together and staff put this document together. I spent a lot of time last year with the team in how this was being put together and think this will be a useful document and I can't go anywhere without a roadmap, a plan or framework, whatever word we want to use and the scip creates that. Now that we have this, now to the questions, 'm concerned where greg is going to apply the money for this and I can't wait for him to do this, but staff wasn't trying to figure this out until scip was created so thank staff for creating this because it will put us, it doesn't change where we are today or next year but it starts a position for how we're going to do these things better and have better long-termfinancial sustain ability for the organization -- sustainability for the organization and our askers so I want to thank -- our assets and thank everybody.8:57 PMThis is an action item so entertain a motion.I'll move to adopt the two recommendations nd the medium scario and then the (indiscernible) investment plan.Second. this is glenn.All right. it has been moved and second. Can we have roll call vote please.Burt?Yes.Thank you.Carrasco?Ees.Yes.Are constantine?Yes.Hendricks?Yes.Jain?Yes.Jimenez?Yes.Jones?Aye.Lee?Yes.-- ricardo?Aye.Paul?Yes.Peralez?Yes.Motion asses unanimously, thank you.Thank you. now, we're on to item 8. 6. It's to receive an update on the silicon valley rapid transit program.And (indiscernible) is the project chief. He'll provide the reports.8:58 PMGood evening, Mr. Chairman and good evening board embers. This is my presentation to share with you.We continue with vta as you know every month and sometimes twice a month. The real-estate process is going very well and it's going as we have planned and in september, we're going to take you through for ou to know where we are this year. We used to tell you May 10th, we had the study session quite a few hours with the city council and city of santa clara and we received all the comments. I thought it was very productive. And i'm glad to tell you 85% of all comments provided, the project is going to accommodate.I'm pretty sure jain will have a comment on that and we'll hear from jain directly about. We continued thecoordination with (indiscernible) as you know. The most recent work we do now is with pg&e because we have to get ready to have the power ready to go for the tbn. Our external affairs unit and we continue ourstakeholders outreach and now they're accomplishing more and more on the property acquisitions.Therefore, everybody can know what we're doing. Next page, please. This is my difficult page. You haveseen it for a year and a half. On the first contract, today as a matter of fact, we had another one-on-one meeting with the contractors and we're going to really continue working with them. And then I hope to have it by the end of the summer. On the tunnel contract work, no news for you since last month. And the only news I can give yu, a quick update here, our office, the field office is going to be ready and the contractor is going to move forward with our time in mid-july. When I see you back in august, I will updatehow that one. Then, on the santa clara contract, we're expecting the end of June to have another one vent to see where we are and address (indiscernible). The last one n the systems contract, you know it by now,the systems contract is on hold. We tried to resolve some issues we've had and then we're going to get on with this project. Next page, please. This is a new table. I know directors had been here some time and they remember this table. This is the famous table you show for many, many years on phase i. This is the fta required table. Now, with action last month to set stage one and a -- and award the project. Vat requested to report this. And it's consistent with the phase i. The vta auditor general requested that. We have agreed that when we have the first award by you, we're going to produce this table. So let me tell you quickly, take a couple of minutes. The first column as you see is the estimate we have summited with our obligation to vta and that's the $6. 9 million project and the second column is what spending is today.We have spent since 2016 -- that is spent -- we have spent $62. 5 million for the state acquisitions and then we have spent $318 million putting this project together. This is the leg work. That's the vta staff and bart staff and consulting staff. As we go on, you can read the yellow footnote for yourselves, as we go on, we follow the fda guidance which we know sometimes the end of the first quarter of '23, we should have the construction in and now where we're at and we're going to set the numbers on the grade. That's the tbd you see there. We're going to do our estimates and our draft and we're going to show you every month where we are, what we spent. You're going to be seeing this table from me every month. Next page, please. Last week with our board award last month, you provided direction. You wanted to do anindependent peer review and for that matter, me, myself, the project and the staff, we dropped back from this and the manager is going to manage (indiscernible). Would you like to say something on that?Yeah. we've been working with, well, not myself, brandy is the one who will be the liaison or primarily thecoordinator, vta is taking a step back. We really wanted to be independent and we're working with after who conducts a number of peer reviews and also recommending to use people who come from other organizations and associations such as the cmaa, construction management and those areas. We'recontinuing to look -- we'll be getting an update that's providing finding those independent experts, pulls those together, working with others who come out of the industry nd then providing that independentreview. So, bart -- staff will provide any information that they request or require.Thank you, karen. and then the other three bullets below is exactly reflecting the memorandum. We need a developer work plan to address all comments regarding downtown in the gas station. That's underwayand then the other is the next three months, bart and the city of san jose and staff will work with the tunnel holders to address (indiscernible) which was part of your memorandum. And then we plan also to have workshops with the key stakeholders regarding tod and station access and additional (indiscernible).That is a quick summary of how we summarized for you and for us the memorandum you have provided us. Last page, elaine, page six. Nothing new here. This is the schedule I have been briefing you for the last almost year and I have nothing to add to this. We are still on schedule as far as I can tell. Thank you, that's my presentation. I'm all yours to answer any questions you May have.Thank you, takis. i'll take public comment.Mark followed by adam. you May begin speaking.Mark, i'm with santa clara county ask yeah, I want to say i'm inspired about how this going forward and I think the track this is on is getting better all the time. As far as independent view, I want to make sure it's independent and having it jointly managed by vta as well as bart and the city of san jose, and I think mtc should be in the process and I want to look at apples-to-apples in the best ways and we're talking about accessibility and both sides of street. I don't want to box ourselves in. This is important transit and I thinkwe're going to see a lot of development in the future and let's consider these possibilities in our review, sothank you for your time.Thank you.Adam followed by davis. adam, you May begin speaking when ready.Hi, i'm adam and i'm a resident of campbell and a transit rider and concerned citizen. I'm excited about thepeer review and the plans for bart silicon valley and we have one shot o build it and we have do it right and it should be independent and managed by vta, bart and the city of san jose and mtc this have input.They have operations and experience. I strongly recommend contacting the transit cost project that the mayor instituted who will investigate transit projects outside of the (indiscernible). The brief should brief working groups and the review should reevaluate alternatives and focus on construction risk and impact to businesses and it should include the dual board and shallower single board. This should not look at operation -- this is a great opportunity for vta to show --Davis, you May begin when ready.Good evening, davis turner, I live in santa clara. I'm a frequent rider and I get to the south bay every once in a while and looking forward to seeing the project complete whenever that is. It's exciting and I wanted to say a few things and i'm sure people will touch upon this. There needs to be an independent but some oversight or bay area. Just being managed by the vta alone is not going to be sufficient so whether it's the metro -- also I think ublic transit needs to be improved and -- some designs made that they don't have input on so I hope there's great input from the public as to the process going on.Adita, you May again when ready.Good evening, board members, a dina with trans bay oalition friends with caltrans and I want to echo what other previous comments have said in thanking vta for going ahead with this review and i'm glad to hear this review will look at the issues of passenger experience and transit oriented development and, that have been raised including the entrances, the passenger circulation and the transfers and the review expertise would benefit from people with experience in a passenger experience as well as people with internationalexperience given there are so many more subway projects being done internationally, also as a member of the --Lee an, you May egin speaking when ready.Good evening vta board and thank you for the update and for pursue, and my name is ryan. My views tonight are my personal views. So, I elieve that the peer review should include an assessment of projectalternatives focusing on passenger experiences and cost and other principles and values that have been outlined by multiple groups and comments ers and sper. They eed expertise both internationally and theunited states and it should be independent. I think there should be a briefing by the chair of the peer review group to the community working groups that are involved so there should be a public aspect to theproject. And I think that vta should outline the scope and management and time view of poor review at an updating meeting and the single tunnel board should be looked at and kst innovations which May become the project and a single bore project and the dual board project.Kevin, you May begin speaking when ready.Hi. my name is kevin berk and i'm a lifelong bay area resident and i'm calling to ask for a very omprehensive review of this project. You get one shot at building this and building something that's 100 feet underground is equivalent to having a surface parking lot. You're going to add that much 3 time to everyone's travel time and when you compare it internationally, we're looking at something that's going to be less cost effective and a lot less likely to get people to take transit. So, I would like your review to focus on cost, construction risk and the passenger experience, to maximize and integrate with housing at the service level and mitigating the housing impact and I like the public to be 3 updated and consider all options including cut and cover with a single bore and using international consultants to sort of help you get the most --That concludes public common, chair jones.Thank you. and going to my colleagues on the board. Director jain?Yeah. I just wanted to thank takis for really listening to the needs of the city of santa clara. Thank you very much.Thank you. thank you.Thank you. director hendricks?I had a quick question to carolyn, if we have a target timeframe for when the independent review is targeted to be completed?I'm going to, well, actually, brandy and I have been having a conversation with apta and that's one of the things hey want to clarify. I can send out an update memo to the board, just status where we're at andwhether we anticipate it will be over.Yeah. I want to remind everybody, I voted for this with the expectation there was a short fuse on getting it done so as soon as we get a date t will going to know so we can get into the overall timeline and use theinformation for future decisions we have to make, so thank you.Thank you.Thank you. I don't see any other hands raised. It was an informational item, so here's no need for a motion. Next is item 8. 7. An update on sb129. Current labor management committee and randy willpresent.Good evening, I want to thank the public for their comments on that last item. I took good notes. I just wanted to provide an update on the sb219 committee. I heard earlier, thanks for the one yearremembrance but I wanted to take 30 seconds to thank those who carefully planned the said mown know and partners in mental health and atu and cia and tea and vta employees and maria and her team and elaine and the board staff, ross, sandra and the coke team and michael in the -- garcia and his security team and our sheriff's team. So thank you. As you also heard much attention was placed on the building b demolition work and our committee wanted to give a special shout-out to ken and his team for their professionalism and care of the employees and the families of the victims throughout the entire process.Our committee is continuing to make weekly, to meet weekly and making good strides in providingspecialist treatment for employees serve with ptsd and the three mental health days for the next two days are operational and available to all employees who need to take that time away from work. We are holding our first peer to peer training that's fashioned after the training that firefighters receive from the bill wilsoncenter. We're excited to host this first class June 23rd and 24 and the concept is to have trained employees available to identify colleagues in need and how to approach sensitive mental health matters and our next big of chunk of work is providing the continued wellness workshop for employees and programming by our contracted clinicians and training in the areas of early intervention, threat assessment and we do have a mandated tsa active shooter training that's required by June of next year. Of course, we do understand thesensitivity of that but we understand the importance of that. So, there ill be more to follow on how we are going to roll that out. And that concludes my report.All right. thank you, brandy. so we'll go to ublic comments.We have one. you May begin speaking when ready.Good evening. I wanted to comment that while I appreciate what brandy had to say, we are in a security crisis. It has been exacerbated by the term information of 14 security personnel because of the vaccination mandate. Last week, we had three serious assault s operators and the average response time is 20 to 25minutes for help o reach an operator and the emotions a driver goes through needs to be addressed as well. Tri-star and helen from risk management have told operators to file for state disability because the approved mental health providers are not available through workers comp. This is unacceptable. What adds insult to injury that this board just approved renewing a multi-million dollar contract with ineffective security and workers compensation companies. We need to --That concludes public common, chair jones.Thank you. we're now going to close public comments for this item. Are there any questions for brandy?Director hendricks?Yeah. brandy, thank you for the update. What I wanted to check on, a board meeting or two, we had a question of doing the contract for the culture work and i'm wondering what the status of that is and when it's coming back because I thought the board approved delaying that action on the predicate that we were going to delay the action a few days and now I think we're into 40 plus days, so what's the status of that?Yes. we are working to bring that back to the board. We have a meeting scheduled so we can get our union leaders back o the table so we can successfully move this forward. I do understand the disappointmentthat veryday lost here is an opportunity to change the culture and it is unfortunate that -- some of the distinction is something we have to make. We have a schedule -- we have a meeting scheduled next week.We have another board meeting next month and I want to move that forward before we break for summer recess.I'll express my opinion, again, I voted to go ahead and not deal with the item because one of my colleagues had some open questions and we thought we were going to be able to address and we had a meeting and it was going to be five or seven days later and it wasn't on the last board agenda. If it doesn't get on the June 17th item, then I think we're looking t august.Yeah.And that is not, I can't speak for anybody else, but that's not consistent with what I thought we were voting on which was just short-term delay to be able to answer a specific set of questions, not necessarily to have some other renegotiation. So, i'll just express and again, i'm not the chair this year so i'm not going to accept the a general a did so if it's not on june, I think august is too late so I don't know how to revolve the dive things but something has happened in the process where we as a board agreed to something and now something else is happening and i'm concerned.Understood.All right. director burt?Yes. I just like to concur with the 7 minutes of director hendricks and more specifically request that this come to us in June for a vote on the agreement if it has the changes that are able to be negotiated, so be it. But if it does not, then the board should have an opportunity to vote on it at that time because of the reasons that director hendricks stated that we have deferred it for one month and it's now longer and weshould at least have that opportunity to vote on it. If the board can still decide not to upport the proposal.Yes, thank you. just to also answer the previous statement from glenn. The items we were to bring back to substantiate the process and the contract, that is ready to go and is available, so. . . . We're ready.[laughter] we just want to, we're trying o move together here on this.Okay. don't see any other hands raised and this is an informational item only so there's no need for a motion. So, we're now on to the second closed session portion.Can I just make one last comment on this one that we just talked about, sorry?Sure.I don't want, ou know, one of the things we are trying to do as we all come together and with the -- with the, all the unions is to really understand is there -- from the union, from atu who has publicly disagreedwith what we're doing at this time is to understand what they feel is whether we're missing something, something should be another way to have the others and those who are through the selection process explain why it was selected. There's a number of things that need to be done so I don't want you to think -- we May come with something. What we're trying to understand is what do we need to do to moveforward on this project? And make sure the scope is as good as we can get it before we present it to the board. So. . . .All right. thank you, carolyn. All right. Nothing, no one else? Now, we're going to move on to the second closed session portion of the agenda. And we will be discussing item 7. 1. B to 7. 1. L. Are there members of the public that would like to address the public on these items?There is one hand and before I open the mic, I want to note for the record that we received written public comments from the following for closed session item 7. 1. B, tracy coral, bob matt, audrey russ, richard palan and barbara brady, letisha, david and michelle dearborn, james reaper, david mesher, lisa smith, panda and ann marie, parsons and david and lisa. Andrew, juan, terry, allina jacobson and joint letter withnancy and john and amy and alley victorian, jean marie, bill, sheila mccann and elizabeth, ralph, sherrie saint martin and steven. We also did receive one written public comment for 7. 1. L, and that from(indiscernible) and actually brad is, I can unmute you. He's also ready to speak. You May begin speaking when ready.Yeah, thank you. good evening, my name is brad. I'm a resident of san jose and I was the project director for the general contractor on the first phase of the sbx extension. I'm your attention his vta's ring to-mistreatment of its contractors that's costing the taxpayers money. Since completing its obligations, my employer has been trying to get its remaining contract balance and retention paid and vta had the electrical systems and testing scope in anticipation of bart changes approved by this board in 2018. Vta is now denying that this is assignment happened or that if it did it was somehow illegal. For the past three years, we've been ready to talk to resolve these disputes and disappointed that we have been unable to get anyone from vta to engage. As a taxpayer, I have no idea how much money vta has wasted on thesy logical arguments but the board should know. I -- I employ you to do the necessary --That oncludes ublic comment, chair jones.Thank you. we'll close public comment. To my clleagues, please mute your zoom mic and video and I will see ou in the closed session virtual room. Members of the public, thank you for attending tonight's meetingRecording was PausedRecording was Paused