Good afternoon, everyone. thevalley transportation authoritymeeting is called to order.Roll call.We have a quorum.Thank you.Before I move on to orders ofthe day, I would like to notethat our ceo is not able to joinuus.5:33 PMClosed session item -- secondstaff is requesting to place thefollowing regular agenda itemson consent agenda.Agenda item 7.27.2.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager to execute acost- plus-fixed feecontract with mark thomas &company, inc, to perform theenvironmentalclearance and final plansspecifications and estimate(ps&e) engineeringservices in an amount not toexceed $4,432,000 for the bascomavenuecomplete street (i880 tohamilton avenue) project.7.3.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager to execute acontract withalbion for an amount up to$4,000,000 to providearchaeological resourcesmanagement services to ensureenvironmental compliance forvta's bartsilicon valley phase iiextension project (bsviiproject).7.4.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager to execute acontract with esafor an amount up to $4,000,000to provide archaeologicalresources managementservices to ensure environmentalcompliance for vta's bartsilicon valleystaff is also requesting agendaitem 7.5 and 7.6.7.5.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager/ceo to execute acontractamendment with the hntb/wspjoint venture (contract s17017)for an amountup to $26,000,000, for a newtotal contract amount of up to$139,432,350, andextend the contract by one yearfrom July 1, 2022, to June 30,2023, to continueproviding program managementservices for vta's bart siliconvalley phaseii extension (bsvii) project.7.6.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager/ceo to execute acontractamendment with the mottmacdonald/pgh wong engineeringinc.Joint venture(contract s18088) for an amountup $34,000,000, for a new totalcontract amountof up to $196,840,000, tocontinue providing generalengineering services forvta's bart silicon valley phaseii extension (bsvii) projectalso defer item 7.8.5:34 PM7.8.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager to execute acontract withdeloitte consulting, llp., fororganizational culture andclimate transformationconsulting services for a periodof two (2) years in the amountof $1,992,442.We lost a trailblazer, normanneta.I would like to take amoment of silence.Norm was bornin san jose November 12, 1931.Because his family was ofjapanese descent, his family wasin an internment amp duringworld war ii and he went touniversity and served in u.S.Army as an intelligence officerand his first position at vtaand first person of color and29th mayor of the city of sanjose and led the city from 1971to 1975.Annual from 1975 to1995, norman mineta, he servedon the committee oftransportation and public worksduring his 20 years in congress.Norman mineta, broke anotherglass ceiling by serving on thecabinet of two presidents.Firsthe was appointed as secretary ofcommerce under president billclinton.President george w bush laterheld him n a position and afterthe 911 attacks, norman played apivotal role.He spear headedthe efforts to create I newagency.The transportationsecurity administration or tsawhich congress.In 2001, the sanjose city council approvedrenaming the san jose airportnorman y mineta, san joseairport to honor hiscontribution and service.Norman is survived by his wifeand 12 grandchildren.Our cityand our country are better offbecause of the accomplishmentsof norman mineta.I would now like to ask for amoment of silence in the honorof norman mineta.Silence --( moment of silence )5:38 PMThank you.. norm mineta wastruly an example of a life welllived.Are there any changes from mycolleagues?I'm not seeing anyhands raised.May I have amotion to approve the orders ofthe day.So moved..Second.5:39 PMWe have a motion and second.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]I will come back to chavez.Motion passed.thank you.Thank you.the next item on our agenda isawards and commendation.2.1.Information item - presentretirement commendationsrecognizingdavid aranda, coach operator,for 34 years of service; oliviamcphearson,olivia started in 1987 and sheearned two operation safetyawards.Olivia, thank you for servingsanta clara county and vta.5:40 PMLet's give a round ofapplause.Awesome. thank you.The other retirees wereunable to join us tonight.Coach operator, for 34 years ofservice; abrar ahmad,transportationsuperintendent, for 32 years ofservice; robert juarez,transportation supervisor,for 32 years of service; omerkassa, bus dispatcher, for 31years of service;eric ozaki, light rail vehiclemaintenance foreperson, for 31years of service;and sergio cruz, coach operator,for 26 years of service.Can we get another round ofapplause for all of ourretirees?5:41 PMNext is public comment.Clerk: chair, can we do aquick screen shot?Sure. let's do it.For everybody, let's turn onyour video.Thank you, theodora,congratulations.This portion of the meeting isreserved for persons desiring toaddress the board ofdirectors on any item within theboard's jurisdiction but not onthe agenda.Speakersare limited to 1 minute.Thissection of the agenda is limitedto no more than 30minutes but could be extended atthe discretion of thechairperson.Those whorequested to speak but wereunable to address the board onitem #3 due to the timelimit will have the opportunityto address the board on thesecond public comment,under 'other items'.The lawdoes not permit board action orextended discussion ofany item not on the agendaexcept under specialcircumstances.If board actionisrequested, the matter can beplaced on a subsequent agenda.All statements that require aresponse will be referred tostaff for reply in writing.Their contact information is onthe screen.Before rainey calls ourspeakers, I would like to remindour public tonight foraddressing the board.They areon the public comment slide onthe screen.If ou want toaddress the board on matters noton the agenda, please raise yourhand now or press star 9 on thephone.We will now take public comment.5:43 PMThank you.You May begin speaking when youare ready.Public speaker: good evening,board.I'm requesting that otherspeakers defer their time to meso I can have the remaining 26minutes.Just kidding.There are a lot of moments andhave been a lot of moments inthe agency where things are hardto get through and where you arehaving trouble understandingeach other and it's going to bea hard task, but I want to pointout a few things that happenedover the past few months thatyou May not be aware of.Theyare extremely positive.Obviously the contract you werea part of, but we were also ableto come to an agreement on await progression and will beable to bring quality throughthe door to keep transportationin silicon valley and santaclara county.5:45 PMChair, do you want to extendhis time?Yes.I want to say i'm glad youare bringing quality peoplethrough the door.The otherschedule, the last vta meetingwith bart never really workedout and lost an operating bidtime and went from four sign upsto three.We were able to cometo an agreement and also have anopportunity to lineup with bart.The bigger picture to this inregards to the bay area.When wework together we can get thisstuff done where we don't needbig momma bear and poppa bearcontrolling.These are twopositive things I think theboard would like to hear about.Thanks for all of that.5:46 PMNext speaker, please.you May begin speaking when youare ready.Public speaker: hi.Blairbeakman, I hope that you haveprovide the speakers to practiceto reimagine and bring that toten speakers that can do thesame thing.The biometric cameraconsiderations, you know, openpublic policies with tech atthis time can do some help withbiometric conversations openwith everyone.At my remainingtime, I want to respect mayorliccardo but to have positivegoals, I think we should lookinto the future of centralizingbus use and rail use around thatand not focus much on theautomatic system for light rail.Thank you.5:47 PMClerk: thank you.that's the last speaker, Mr.Chair.We'll o to item 4. no publichearings.We'll go to item 5.Ehave reports.There are no public hearings5.1.Committee reports5.1.A.Citizens advisorycommittee (cac) chairperson'sreport.(verbalreport) (swaminathan)chair, I don't see him.If youcan go on to the next item.5.1.B.Policy advisory committee(pac) chairperson's report.(verbal report)send did not meet in april.There is no report.(moore)5.1.C.Standing committeechairpersons' report.(verbalreport)the report is in the onlineagenda packet.5.1.D.Policy advisory boardchairpersons' report.(verbalsend we approved on tonight'siteconsent agenda.5:48 PMReport)# the report is in the packet.Now5.1.E.Oversight committeechairperson's report.(verbalreport)will provide a brief report.5:49 PMThank you chair jones andconstantine.Thank you for theopportunity for providing someof the valuable work for theoversight committee or nbcoc.Some might recognize me as mytenure on the san jose council.My purpose tonight is to informthe board of the audit andexpenditures and revenues ascommissioned by the coc.Themeasure b ballot specify that anindependent oversight committeebe established to be sure fundsare being expended and programto findings.The members takethose responsibilities veryseriously.One key finerequirement is that they have anindependent audit every year.They completed he fiscal yearfor 2021 with no opinions.Thatmeans with the standards ofprocedures applied, that measureb revenues only on cost wereidentified on the ballot.Theynext meeting May 25, where we'llconduct its annual publichearing.It will also considerthe annual report on fiscal year2021.The key element being thecommittee's conclusion onwhether measure b revenues werein accordance ith the ballot.This concludes my presentation.I'm available for questions.Thank you.5:50 PMThank you, rose.we will now take public commenton all the items under committeereports.Rainey, o we have any publicspeakers?5:51 PMWe have one, Mr. Chaibeakmanbeakman?You May begin speakingwhen you are readypublic speaker: we have starteda plan during he covid era forhow to feature bond issues andwe can start those plans andmake improvements now.Good luckin the effort for bart.With thediridon station committeemeeting, I think we are tryingto be a bit more open aboutgiving actual time dates toexpect how long his projectwill actually take to practicethat sort of openness andaccountability.It's reallyimportant.It was mentioned thatthe bod last month that theproject is not quite togetherand not quite connecting withpeople.It could help with thatand all residents of the bayarea at this time.Thank you.5:52 PMThank you.that concludes public speaking.All right. public comment foritem 5.1 is now closed.It takesus to the general manager reportfor item 5.2.A reminder for the public thatwe'll take public comment underall items of the general managerreport.Jim?Thank you, chappie.i'm happy to report on thedeadline with the covidvaccination and policy.Currently we have 1933 fullyvaccinated employees incompliance.Over 90% of ourworkforce.We have 1971employees partially vaccinated.Vta granted exemption formedical basis and we have fouremployees retire rather than toget vaccinated.And those notreporting vaccination must takea covid test prior to going towork.And they must comply withthe policies and procedures.I'm happy to report that vtacontinues to train and graduatenew coach operators, class of 16operators that you see heregraduated April 20th and alreadyserving our passengers.There is another training classgoing on as we speak which willgraduate six new drivers on May18.We are continuing naggressive campaign for busoperators.Please encourageanyone interested to ourwebsite.The current action adaptationplan.As we all know publictransportation takes on animportant roll of providingtransportation and land use andtransportation.Vta is goingfurther to address the climateemergency.To identify additional ways tominimize contributions toclimate change and buildresilience to long-term climateinterest.Vta is building adevelopment and climate actionplan and folks can take acommunity survey.The surveylink is accessible at vta.Org.Some information on marketingcampaigns that are rolling out.We are building up our mediarelations department under ourpublic information officers.We've had some good success withgetting our issues covered.Wehave had some coverage withridership numbers and Imentioned a month over monthwith over 45% increase.Several funds were approved sofar and also highlighted andimmediately following thesupport that vta is providingthrough your good work forproviding to families and ourco-workers illed in theincident.Also covered are public transitand we continue to receivepositive responses for theseefforts and many are covered inspanish and english language.Our department is launching thesummer youth pass since thepandemic campaign featuringwomen and minority businessesincluding nirvana coffeehouseand jackie's place and if youhaven't gone to these places, Ihighly recommend them.Moving to item 5.2a, this is anupdate on the caltrainelectrification project which isa project that will convert fromthe diesel operating system intoan electrified system.We havemichelle bushad who is theexecutive director and the chiefinformation officer and thechief of electrification projectto make the presentation.Michelle?5:57 PMThank you so much and reallyappreciate the opportunity topresent this important projectfor the corridor and I know it'simportant for all of caltrain'spartners.It's been some timesince our last official updateto the vta board and weappreciate your information andmichelle has taken a welldeserved time off, and we willpresent this item and we havebaselined this in December andwe have a major milestone ofhaving all the 3,000 signs alongthe corridor.Director hendricks, thank youfor that.And I had theopportunity to ride them at 110miles an hour in the high desertin colorado.I think they aregoing to be an amazingimprovement not only for ourcustomers but in the communitywhich we operate.We do have a couple othermilestones coming up in the nextfew months and we'll let youknow and invite you.It's reallyworth celebrating this programin which we have all invested.Casey is going to talk to youabout funding efforts.We havebeen working very closely withour state and federaldelegations as well as vta staffand other staff members fromother agencies, and we are goingto be working really hard to getthe money or the project overthe finish line.Mostly, I wanted to thankeveryone on the board here andat the staff level for theirsupport for the program over theyears.We couldn't have reachedthis milestone without yoursupport.With that, I will turn it overto casey for her presentation.5:59 PMHello, everyone.casey, with the chiefinformation officer.This is going to be thefoundation for the otherprojects with the electricalcorridor.There are elementsthat are already there and theyare on the corridor today buthigh-speed rail will be usingthe exact same infrastructurefor the electric and in sanfrancisco use the electrifiedservice and diridon will benefitfrom that with a new modernizedupgraded system and theelectrification which is now apart of our future.A quick reminder on what thisproject actually is.That 25 kbsystem which is the same ashigh-speed rail and 75% of thediesel fleet.We'll need a newsignal system as part of thisscope as well.We started construction in 2017and doing constructionthroughout the pandemic andwe'll have some slides to showsome of the challenges that wehave been experiencing withthat.We have new electrictrains on the corridor right nowand we expect to be havingpassengers ride these reallynice trains in 2024.You cannot get a project that ismore shovel ready.The shovelshave been in the ground forseveral years now.One of themilestones we met were over thefoundations and over the 50 milecorridor and we removed a majorrisk.The corridor is over 50years old and you can imagine wehad challenges with that.Wecompleted that work and almostall the work that remains now isabove ground and easier.Thereare still some complications butthat was a risk that was put tobed.You can see some othermajor milestones that will getus o the revenue service in2024, installing the poles andtraction power facilities thatdistribute the power throughoutthe corridor and having thepower throughout the 51 milesand integration and testing thathappens throughout that processespecially as we get differentsegments.It is really a longcorridor and requirescoordination on the activerailroad.This is a picture we love and soexcited about.The trains arehere and we will have an eventfor vip's this summer.We areplanning after that to havedifferent programs and event forthe public.We'll be able tomove the train around to fillthis excitement s well beforethey get to ride them in 2024.6:03 PMJust a reminder for deepbenefits and system withdriver's and control systems.You can see where the engineerdrives, it's much smoother andmuch better experience for thedrivers of the trains.Sustainability, going to all ofour recent ones and we'll beable to to have these withcaltrain.The same theme, going fromdiesel to electric.We always want to make sure thatwe mention this one as well.When we decrease emissions andnoise pollution, we are doing itfor all the communitiesincluding the communities on themap that are communities ofconcern.We have been changingthe chedule to provide middayand off peak service and when wehave the electrified service,we'll be able to enhance thisand provide more service.We'vedone a deep dive and thisproject now touches the 0states across the country.The project is by american -- itwas because of their contractwith caltrain that they wereable to establish their firstfacility in the u.S.That's insouth lake tahoe city and theyhave been able to build theirlocal supply.This is a greatstory of what a project can doand as an example to give theirripple effect across thecountry.The cost in funding for thetotal cost of electrification is$2.4 billion.The cost increaseis $262 million but we havealready secured funds for that.The gap we are looking for nowis $410 million.Some of the reasons for that isa new signal we needed to havein place, it's needed forelectrification and the originalscope did not meet the standardsand kind of what our needs were.We did have to revise that andthere will be an effort by unionpacific and fta and roadadministration and rail.This isa project in a good place, but alarge part of the discussionwith that with a new scope thatwe had to hammer down.The other factors, we have beenbuilding this project during apandemic.There were certainlycovid related delays, time --supply constraints and hese areall factors that contributed tothe budget increase.So, at the high level speakingto that $410 million need, weare working on at least $210million.The u.S.Has a lot ofsurplus now and a lot of peopleare talking about a significanttransportation packet.For aproject that is two years awayfrom being completed, this is agreat opportunity from thestate.If we can get the full$410 million from the state,that would be wonderful, butright now it's $268 million.Weare asking for the last part ofthe funding for the program.Wehave had great support from ourdelegation, and with ourbipartisan support at thefederal level and with thetransportation trust and deal,we are hoping that these are thelast dollars that will finish 3this project and everyone willbe able to ride it in the verynear future.We've had so much tremendoussupport for the project ndreally grateful for everyonethat's been with us on thisjourney and now we are at thefinish line where we have thetrains at the corridor and weare going to be riding thesetrains very soon.We want to besure the board has an update andI will take comments on theproject.6:08 PMChair jones: thank you,michelle and casey, are thereany questions.Board member hendricks: Idon't have any questions, but Iwould like to say thank you forgetting on.Thank you.Okay, the other item, wedon't need a motion.I'm going to pass it back tojim.6:09 PMThank you, chappie.thank you michelle and casey.Great job.Did you have a comment?No.The next item is thetransformation act and ab 21,the vta board organization.First of all, to make clear wehave a request to look at theseamless transportationprinciples which have been putforward in this with a lot ofactivities associated with them.My intention is to give you theupdate on the currentlegislation moving forward andthe next meeting we will take adeep dive with those principlesand some of the consideration weare looking at as we develop aposition around this particularbill.Senator introduce this bill toadopt an independent transitfare structure and adopt thestrategy associated and finallyestablished -- these conceptscome from advocates and pastports.They seek to address thechallenges, that are travelingthroughout the bay area.Senator baker stated that 35% ofthe ridership were made in thebay area and increased from 1991and projected to achieve climateequity.It requires mtc to provideinformation and could result infcc holding the funds for theoperators to comply.They are required to make theeffort without affecting transitservice levels.With all the expanding programsrequiring the expenditures andnow for the requirement of thereimbursement from the cost fromthe state.These are commendable goals andMay assist increasing the numberof drivers and there arerequirement from individualoperators and such as vta andstandard requirements.To betterunderstand the support neededfor transit operations,congestion management programwill consider the issue withupcoming meetings.This willprovide the insight forrecommendations moving forwardand managers in order tosuccessfully implement theseprograms.Additionally there isan additional report to providethe updates on the business caseadvisory group and consultantsto create a business case tohelp address this issue.The second bill that I wanted totalk to you about is by assemblymember berman and this is inresponse to grand juryrecommendations as well as the2021 vta assessment analysis andsignificant stakeholders.His intent is to provide anexperienced, transparent andreasonably focused in santaclara county complextransportation needs.Ab 2181would limit the board ofdirectors with 10% ex-officiomembers and six members will beprivate citizens.Theappointments or elections arespecified as follows..Antaclara county two seats with onemember with expertise ininfrastructure and the othermember with accounting.The city of san jose will beallocated five seats, two electofficials and two communitymembers nominated by the mayorand city council.One of which must be a transituser.Small cities would maintain fiveseats and can have two electedofficials and at least twocommunity members with knowledgeof issues on transportation.Members are elected by membersof the city council in san joseon a countywide basis using arank choice voting at a publicmeeting.Applications, ballotsand counting are performed bythe vta.Individuals being represented,the current language only refersto the extent possible.The term of office is changedfrom 3 to 4 years and memberscan be appointed and the metricsshows the changes in moredetail.I will be happy toprovide more information to anymember of the board.This concludes my presentation.I'm available for questions.6:15 PMAt this time, we'll takepublic comment.You May begin speaking whenyou are readypublic speaker: thank you forthe report.The seamless bill, Idefinitely oppose that.Therewas one bill that was notmentioned in regards to makingit mandatory that publicentities have a resilienccenter such as we had.I spokein support of it for thelegislature last week and theother thing, vaccinated.We needto stop this immediately.6:16 PMI appreciate your comments.I will be happy to note we havesubmitted this letter as part ofthe legislation.6:17 PMWe have three more speakers.you May begin speaking when youare ready.Public speaker: good evening,i'm calling regarding s.B.917and looking forward to upcomingdiscussion at the cmppcommittee.This is a bill thatis moving forward.Therecommendations of the approvedtransit transformation actionplan that came out of the blueribbon task force as a goal ofpublic transportation idershipfrom impacts of covid that makeit more seamlessly integrativeand convenient and accessiblefor riders.As seamless is asponsor of the bill, we havereally appreciated the activenegotiations with transitoperators and with mtc that hasalready resulted in amendments.That improved the bill to makeit more practical to implementfor agencies and ot have risksof unfunded mandates in thatbill, and looking forward to thefuture discussions.6:18 PMNext speaker, please. youMay begin speaking when you arereadypublic speaker: blair beakman.Thanks for this item.This isgreat for high-speed rail.To beable to connect with theprevious speakers, what I triedto say previously abouthigh-speed rail is that it's notjust a project but a project forthe bay area and the use of railcan be a factor possibly in amajor entrance point around thebay for the ace rail throughdublin area, through the antiocharea.I think we should be opento what can really take place inthat way to move rail into thecentral valley.Ow about anopen conversation for all of usbrings out our better selves inthe community.6:19 PMNext speaker, please. youMay begin speaking when you arereadypublic speaker: good evening,i'm a 16 year veteran of vta andhere to speak about the vaccineand emotional anguish that manyof us are facing daily.You havecreated, you the board havecreated along with carolyn andmanagement affected employeesand people are pitted againsteach other and they have made areligious choice to not bevaccinated and now we are facingunemployment, homelessness andhuge mental health issuesbecause of you, Mr. Jones.6:21 PMClerk: that concludes publicspeaking, Mr. Chair.Chair jones: public commentfor item 5.2 is closed.Member hendricks: I wasgoing to say the senate bill, isthe berman bill going to bediscussed in a meeting.I knowthere is a lot in the meeting,but I wonder when the board willactually weigh in on it.That's a great question,director hendricks.This is anitem concerning the board ofdirectors and the board ofsupervisors of santa claracountcounty.At this point we havebeen requesting to bring this onboard to the advisory committeeand we'll bring this back to theboard and hopefully therecommendation for positionsthat can take it on.6:22 PMIs that going to the pac?Yes, sir.I hope we can get itagendaized.Thanks.Director peralez?Yes, thank you.just to be clear.When Iinitiated the request forseamlesseamless principles to be heardat the board, it was that.Itwasn't in relation to the senatebill.I was asking that we bringthe seamless transit principlesto the board for approval whichis something that the principleshave been adopted by the city ofsan jose and county board ofsupervisors here.So just a distinction there.I'mhappy that we talk about boththe principles and senate bill917 at cmpp, but that was theoriginal request.It's been abit delayed.Maybe that's whythey are jumbled together, but Iwanted to make that very clear.6:24 PMWhen is the pac?That will be next week, sir.Thanks so much.Next item.Is the chair's report.the distinguished budgetpresentation award.For santaclara valley transportationauthority.That concludes mycomments.6:25 PMWe'll take public commentnow.Mr. Chair, there are nomembers of the public to speak.Okay, next item.Consent agenda.6:26 PMAdministration and finance (a&f)are there any questions?Or arethere any recusals?Yes, I would like to or ask aquestion of item 6.1.Any others? okay, go aheadand ask your question.I know there are many thathave been awarded this, but Ihave another question.I askedabout the propane tank anddiscovered that it's forbuilding heating and there is noreal natural gas to thisbuilding.Natural gas is notreally practical.But my concernis that here we are spending$1.3 million on a tank that willcommit us to using fossil fuelsfor more years.I wanted to knowmore about this fossil fuel use.6:27 PMDo we have anyone to addressthis question?Yes, i'm ron, the directorfor the group here at the vta.It is a great question and asignificant contribution to getpropane done.It does not commit us to apropane solution forever.The challenge that we have isall of the devices that arewithin the yard now are propaneand they would need to betransitioned to a differentsolution if we recuse naturalgas in addition to providing anew connection to natural gas.Our plan really is when we makelarge scale changes to the yardin uilding reconfiguration,that's the time we wouldtransition to natural gas.So inour master planning effort, weare continuing to consider theuse of natural gas.However,that would not be transitioneduntil we do larger scalerehabilitations, rather thanlike we are doing here in oneparticular point of connectionwhich is the propane tankitself.6:28 PMI think my question was notto provide hook up for that.6:29 PMWe have a plan for improvedsustainability through electric.The challenge that we have is wehave already a ray of solarcanopies and planning to putsolar on all of our buildingsthat will accept it.That willallow us to provide a portion ofour electricity needs.It's nowhere near enough to satisfy allof our needs and not enough tosatisfy to our zero emissionsbuses.We will continue to help pg & eto improve our grid in our reaand we have additional two microgrid projects, the capacity isnot large enough to satisfy allthe electric needs we have forthe yard.It will always be abalance between some form ofelectricity to the maximumcapacity but we always need oaugment that into otherresources.The hope is to movethat to natural gas, but rightnow propane is really the onlyfeasible solution for ourcurrent need which is torehabilitate part of theinfrastructure and not the wholesite.6:30 PMThank you.Director bert?Thanks to director jain forbringing that up.I have a follow-up question.Are you saying there is not anadequate pg & e fee to be ableto electrify these applicationsthat are there and that's yourlooking at a micro grid approachas much as possible?36:31 PMNo, the challenge that ehave is the current seat we haveis we eed to do some largescale switch gear and points fconnection at our yard and putin infrastructure that issignificant because of the powerof the feed that comes in now,it's not significant and we haveto get new feed.To get it issignificant infrastructureneeds.So we will be doing thatas part of our electric busfleet.So t that point, wewould be able to consider usingelectricity for the components.Recognize though that there area litany of components thatthemselves would need changeout.There is two parts, theservice connection and theequipment itself.What werecognize is the equipmentitself should be changed outupon building reconfiguration,or site changes as opposed tojust service changes becauseit's several million dollarsjust of equipment that wouldalso need to be updated inaddition to the serviceprovision.6:32 PMOkay, so that's very helpful.I want to note that we had at arecent board meeting adiscussion about having ananalysis of major capitalexpenditures of climate impactsand sustainability as part ofthe analysis that was presentedto the board.We just got someverbally that was very helpful,but I was hoping that thatanalysis and expecting frankly,that that was going to beincluded as a outine part ofwhat we were provided on thesesorts of decisions.So we can follow up on that offline perhaps, but yes.6:33 PMWe will certainly follow upon that.Thank you for that.Theshort answer is we have planand moving towards theelectrified system.This is astep towards this way and itincludes natural gas, but weneed to do it at the same timewhen we start to bring theadditional expenditure of theelectric buses that will becharged out of that area.It isa very expensive project.Dealing with pg & e is also achallenge on this regard.Thank you.I appreciate thecomments.I will make sure thatthis is included in items likethis going forward.6:34 PMThank you.Thank you.I see mark also.I was just going to provideadditional info if you requestit.Thank you.Before public comment, I willask colleagues for any changesor recusal.I know we madechanges to the onsent calendar.I want to be sure you on't haveany recusals.I'm sorry, Mr. Chair, can yourepeat the changes that weremade.I didn't quite catchthose.6:35 PMWe moved item 7.2, 7.3, 7.4to the consent calendar.I see.So 7.2 is an item that --Knew I had to recuse myselffrom 7.5.I'm going to review those itemsnow.I know you have to go topublic comment.I will get toyou pronto.I promise.All right. let's go to publiccomment.Clerk: we have one speaker.you May begin speaking when youare ready.Public speaker: blair beakman.I wanted to speak on items 6.1and 6.4.Speaking about planning ideasand it's always good to be openabout this on public policywhich is what really brings tolight what is our future andexperience.Good luck in that work andaccountability.About the transition, I thinkit's a really positive plan, andit does a lot more than countingon the automatic vehicle systemand the local procurementprocess we just talked about,good energy practices, renewableenergy ideas.It's all so muchand does so much more thanautomatic vehicle stuff.6:36 PMThat concludes our publicspeaking.Chair jones.. that closespublic comment for this item.Director liccardo: if I canrecuse myself from 6.1.6:37 PMDoes anyone else need torecuse themselves?Can we get a motion on thisitem, please.We have a motion and second.6:38 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: this is on the agendaitem 6.1 through 6.10.Roll call, please. motionpassed.Thank you.First item on the regularagenda.Committeeadministration and finance (a&f)committee7.1.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager to extendcontract s17112 withtristar risk management forworkers' compensationthird-partyadministration services, andcontract s17113 with ek healthfor workers'compensation managed careservices, by two (2) years witha new expirationdate of June 30, 2024.Theamount for the extension ofcontract s17112 will notexceed $2,554,343, resulting ina total contract price of$7,814,443, and theamount of the extension ofcontract s17113 will not exceed$632,700, resultingin a total contract price of$2,032,700.Bifurcated orker's compprogram.Along with that ishealth that is provided formanagement services.I wouldlike to share this is a snapshotof five years and you will seethat 77, almost 78% of theclaims are accepted ascompensable.6:39 PMThe claims received throughcalendar year 2017 and 2021.This is regarding riskmanagement and legal counsel andrecommendations.Regulatingrates and compensablity andbecause those ail to report andmedical reports fails tosubstantiate causation.6:40 PMWorker's compensation, ishandled through the industriallabor relations with code andstandards and benefits areapplied and auditing isperformed very five years to astate audit and enforcementunit.Again, with the due diligence,tristar has been involved nthese cases and received theaward in california and alsoearned a 94% independent auditin 2018.We over see whattristar does through keyperformance indicators that arereviewed every quarter and wefound that tristar maintenance aconsistent open inventory withthe request of ratio claims andthis requires administeringclaims without litigation.The services through ek healththrough the management networkand management services.What are we oing to ensure estpractices continue?6:42 PMWe initiate a schedule ofworker's compensation reviewwith union leaders that start inMay 2022 and will be on going.We have leveraged the work outto ek health given significantevents in the last 12-18 monthsand brokerage review inconjunction with the audit andgeneral assessment and 2.3contact and claims fluiditywhich would shorten thetimeframe.Again, therecommendation is to authorizethe general manager to sendcontract 17112 with tristar riskmanagement for worker'scompensation third partyadministration services andcontract for worker'scompensation management careservices for two years with thedate of June 30th.The amount of the extension forthe tristar contract will notexceed $2.554 million, and theextent for the ek healthcontract will not exceed$632,700, and I ask this beconsidered.The contract expiresJuly 1st.It's critical to havean administrator in place tocover our program with thisextension.Thank you.6:44 PMThank you, judith, we aregoing to ublic comment first.You May begin speaking whenyou are ready.Public speaker: thank you.Thisis john.Thank you for puttingthis on hold to take a deeperdive.This past summer, wecoordinated conversations withthe unions and the riskmanagement department in May of2022.Literally the other day.So thank you for that.That's agood start.And I also took adeep dive in working with andthrough the pandemic and whathappened May 26, there were manymany frustrations as far asgetting help for my people.Itturns out a lot of them areinternal vta policies andparticularly return to workpolicies.Transitional workprogram that is reallyineffective and we need to bemore creative and create moresituations.All in all, we haveto work with what we have andtristar, there are betterchoices out there but Iappreciate this.6:45 PMWe have two more speakers.you May begin speaking when youare readypublic speaker: blair beakman.I hope the ideas that I haveoffered can help to addressmorale issues with the vta andaseu.I hope we can have gooddialogue.It takes a lot indoing that.And with publicpolicies that I have beentalking about can really helpand interest for what is reallypossible for our future here insanta clara county.Thank you.6:46 PMNext speaker, please.anne, you May begin speakingwhen you are ready.Public speaker: hello, annestuart.[inaudible]It's been two months and Istill have not been given apsychiatrist to speak to.Unacceptable.While they aretrying to do omething and help,there is nobody that can speakto this person.We need to do better.You needto do better than.I'm done,thank you.6:47 PMThank you.that concludes public speaking.Thank you.Are there any of mycolleagues who would like to askquestions or comments on thisitem.Director liccardo?Thank you, chair.I just have a question about thetransit agencies regardingworker's comp claims and denialsand understand how we compare.Do we do that now?6:48 PMMember liccardo, we do, we goto surveys and there was oneasked of us and we gave detailto the hr department and waitingon overall results.We do thison a regular basis and theoverall processes and what'sworking, and it has been veryvery helpful to us.Could you give us a sense ofhow we compare.Obviously wehave an outlier with theterrible tragedy at theguadalupe yard, but other thanthat, can you give us a sense ofthe comparative agencies?It's a regional administratorand with the dedication ofstaff, they have stepped up tothe plate ime and time again,working with board, and some ofthe larger third party claimadministrators have lostmomentum particularly because ofcovid and the responsibility formanaging covid cases they havenot doing the level of work thatthey have in the past.6:49 PMI'm sorry. I was asking adifferent question.Let me tryto rephrase it.Okay.I'm less concerned about theperformance of the administratorbut more concerned about theagency for example where we havea high or low number of claimsthroughout the workforce site.And really how these claims tendto be resolved.That's reallywhere I was going at.Do youhave any sense that you can giveus, if not, it's something thatI can get with you off line.6:50 PMYes, t's been this way overthe past year because of covid.Year over year, our lose # --losses are flat.The managementdepartment acts as a liaison towork with employees with thethird party administrator whenthey happen.Please contact us,we'll walk you through it andwork with it.We understand that it'sdifficult particularly with ptsdand if there is a problem, allyou have to do is reach out tous.So overall, we have greathistory and we are considered onthe top of having less injuriesand truly lower lost timebecause of the process that wework through tristar and ourconnection with our employees.6:51 PMWe'll go back to look at themetrics to compare thosenumbers.We'll go back andidentify that.What I would liketo do is identify he commentsthat you were making and thedistinctions were a very validone and from our perspectivethere was not a tristar issue.We have to look at internalstuff we are doing because theyare an extension of what we areand what we are doing.Fundamentally, when you start tolook at the reviews by willis aswell as the auditor general, Ithink you are going to see thattristar does a phenomenal job.That is not always the issue.Weneed to be sure we are doingthis internally iving them guysand processes that don't upsetour workers.I appreciate john's commentswhere we are going to startengaging those units to get itback precovid.We lost some ofthat in the last 18 months.Thathas to be reinforced.It's notreally tristar but much more ofour process and we have to workon that and improve it.6:52 PMThank you.All rght. I don't see anyother hands raised.I will entertain a motion andsecond, please.Move approval.6:53 PMSecond, liccardo.All right.Roll call, please.Sorry, chair, I did not getwho the mover was?Constantine.Thank you. this is for item7.1.6:54 PM[roll call]Motion passes.Thank you.items 7.2 through 7.4 were heardand in consent agenda.We will go to item .5 and7.6 together.7.5.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager/ceo to execute acontractamendment with the hntb/wspjoint venture (contract s17017)for an amountup to $26,000,000, for a newtotal contract amount of up to$139,432,350, andextend the contract by one yearfrom July 1, 2022, to June 30,2023, to continueproviding program managementservices for vta's bart siliconvalley phaseii extension (bsvii) project.General manager/ceo to execute acontractamendment with the mottmacdonald/pgh wong engineeringinc.Joint venture(contract s18088) for an amountup $34,000,000, for a new totalcontract amountof up to $196,840,000, tocontinue providing generalengineering services forvta's bart silicon valley phaseii extension (bsvii) projectthroughJune 30, 2023.6:55 PMThe chief will provide thereport.Thank you, Mr. Chair.We are providing the contractand the jv and then we put inmoney on our engineering designconsultants that Iconsultants, and we are going tothe final year to finalize ourcontracts.And this will be through nextyear.6:56 PMThank you, takis.now we'll go to public comment.Mark, you May begin speakingwhen you are ready.Public speaker: hi, mark mano.I'm with several organizationsin santa clara county.Therewere concerns with the publicconcerned about the process withthe bart here last week with thedirectors and oncern over theprocess and moving forward andthey called for independentreview.I was very happy to seethat and join in the call forthat.I want the best for vtatransit.I think the bad pr ishurting this transit unless weget an independent review.Thatis a lot of the data we need anda lot of people are raisingconcerns and we really need tobasically et ahead of this.Iwelcome that review.Thank youvery much for your time.6:57 PMNext speaker, please.Public speaker: blair beakman.Thank you for this iem.Therewere a few good examples in thetime of covid under nuriafernandez.It was a bit of atough time, but I think therecould be a road ap to what canbe acceptable and workable forour future.The city of la andlight rail system is a goodexample and to help with financeand the question on what canhelp with this item and thingslike roland and the projectsector at this time does coverthis factor on what we aretrying to do.6:58 PMThank you.that concludes public comment.Thank you.I will now close publiccomment on this item.Mr. Chair, May I recusemyself rom this item?6:59 PMYes.Director jain?I had a question about the $9billion and what sort ofcontingency was put in there.The reason i'm asking is themcdonalds contract and the 162which makes it 196, which is a21% increase.So i'm wonderingif that increase is alreadybuilt in as a contingency with6.9, or whether we are going toblow the 6.9.Mr. Chair, May I respond?Yes.Yes, director jain, thesecosts, they have been build intobaseline budget of the program,the 6.9.This is what we budgetevery year for the services.This is director jain, this isfor the engineers and architectswho work in the process, oneprovides 62 people and the other85.To answer your question, thecontingency is there.7:00 PMOkay, thank you very much.Member peralez?I need to recuse myself on7.6 and not 7.5.Yes. we can do that.Director bert?Yes, so, I don't knowprocedurally how we May beaddressing the on goingexpenditures such as this withthe questions that have beenraised an so far I have onlyheard in the press from mayorliccardo about his concurrencefor the need for an independentreview of what has becomeincreasingly concerning costescalations.Actually, when I came on theboard a year and a quarter ago,it seems the train left thestation on the board and thecost had escalated from$4.6 billion, during 2020, itwent up to 5.6.The completiondate from 2026 to 2030 and thento $6.9 and we had the ftaoversight report and it wasexplained to us that 9.1 was thehigh end of the range and highlyunlikely that it would hit thereand now we have heard from ourstaff that that upper end of therange is more likely to be wherewe are actually headed.That's in just three years or socorrectly, it increased from$4.6 to around $9 billion.I would like to understand wherewe are on whether we are goingto have a pause and a review ofwhether this needs to bereconsidered on the approach.Regret fully.7:03 PMTakis, do you want to brieflyspeak to that qestion?I know director bert hadquite a few points on hisstatement.I can take one.The $9.145 is the riskassessment done in July withthis program and that was beforeyou and the board.It was anassessment.It's not a costestimate.It is the ceiling ofwhat the federal governmentdeems our project is going tobe, and what we try to do tobring this project closure andclosure to the base, to berather close.That is what staffare doing.That's what we try todo here.For that, we take that to theprevious estimate and I don'tknow very well and what westarted 7 months ago.Perhapssomeone else can answer this.Icannot speak to this previously.You know what the numbers looklike and the material andcommoditiescommodities and so on.I know mypartners, every so many months,they go to the board and ask formore relief.From my point of view, the 9.1is the ceiling and we are tryingto bring it down as much as wecan and we will continue tonegotiate with the contractorsto get close to the baseline.7:05 PMI understand there is aprobablprobable estimate and that it'slikely that it is that$9.1 billion figure.It could gohigher.That's not the upper endof their range but a place toput their number on because theyhad a p ninety that was10.Something as well.7:06 PMAllow me to remind everybodythat the $2.1 billion which thefeds made for the modeling, halfof that money is forcontingencies, for the risk, thedollar of fuel goes to $9 agallon, what about this, whatabout for that.Only alf of the2.Something billion is differentview of the cost.I would like to tell yousomething more, when the federalgovernment reviewed the projectand cost and schedule and designdrawings to update, they basedthis on the end of 2020 pans.Remember we applied for the apbin january.At that time, we were 10-15%design.When all went out and weselect and got back, we were 35%design.If that 58 comestomorrow and applies the samemodeling, i'm pretty sure thecost will go down because thedesign is more stable.But eventhat, fta said to us in theletter of intent as you know,they said, okay, we are in adifficult market, you are doinga difficult project here.Hereis what I would like you to do.Take two years to get this andthen you have these numbers.Ifyou ask me what i'm ocusing onnow, it's the end of the quarterof 2023.We will have a designfor our stations.We have morework to do in our stationcontract.We are going to haveall 75 parcels acquisitionprice, we are going to have goodstable numbers and we see wherewe are at that time.I'm veryoptimistic where we will bebelow the 91.We need to go towhere the federal government isgoing.Let's develop the fundingplan before we go to the 9.1.7:08 PMJust for reference, it is a p80 of $10 billion and on tableof fta oversight report from Mayof last year.Is the date on itand the recommendation is 9.8.That's where I got that number.7:09 PMI recognize that. I only knowthe federal government gave usan executive summary and wedisagree with that.I don't knowif you have seen the vtaresponse back to the federalgovernment why we disagreed withthis modeling.We are on the record.We gave 90pages of report to that.I'm actually referring, i'mdrawing that from the summary.Yes, I hear you.what i'm saying is we haverefuted this.We haven'taccepted it.We have hadarguments back and forth andthat's when headquarters briefedus and they said we have ourpoint of view and you have yourpoint of view and we are notgoing to change that.So let'sarbitrate that.You have twoyears and bring it in.So that'swhat we are doing now.Gettingeverything together to see wherewe are.I hate to speculate, but that'swhere we are going to be now.7:10 PMI would like o bring backthis item which is where we aremaking a decision for thecontract award for the eginningon the project itself.Which I think is the right timeto have the discussion aboutcost estimates and where wethink we are.I would just very quickly saythat call estimates areestimates until we tart gettingthe prices, and everybody knowsthe prices have been going up.You can blame it on a lot ofthings.We heard from ourcolleagues at caltrain.We areconfident that we have thewherewithal for the project, butI would encourage your staffmembers to vote favorable onthis item.Thank you.7:11 PMThank you. i'm going back tocontinue to entertain questionson this item because if they arenot asked now, they are going tobe asked later.Let's get thequestions out.Director hendricks?I think i'm going to befalling long with Mr. Lawson.i'm a little confused about theindependent risk assessmentright now when it's notofficially on the table.But Iwas at the joint bart vta boardmeeting.I chaired that meeting.And I believe my summarizationat the end of that item came tobeing able to have anindependent risk assessmentmight be the appropriate thingto do, but not at the expense ofstopping any of the existingwork.I think that's where if peoplewant to talk about riskassessment and being able to goahead and having thatindependent view, I would liketo use the word and say, here,do you think that means stoppingeverything we are doing rightnow and that would be a horriblebad idea, or as I think it wasstated t the end of that jointmeeting, if we are going to dothe independent assessment thatgoes on in parallel with thework that's going on, becausenot to get ahead under 7.7, butif people want to do thatestimate to look at things, weare going to get the solidprocurement process that we aregoing through and because theway the procurement process is,you can't talk about a lot ofthings right now, but in the fewshort months if we do thatprocurement, you get to 6.7, andnot the numbers because they aregoing to disagree with thenumbers, but we are oing tohave actual hard information.Iwould encourage us to moveforward with 7.4, 7.5, 7.6 and7.7, we do hat in parallel withthe work that is being donebecause there is assive massivemomentum to being able to getwork done.If we stop what weare doing now, I can guaranteeyou the impact and being able torestart our work would be xnumber times greater thanwhatever a stoppage would bebecause -- I will go ahead andleave it there.7:14 PMGood points. I actuallyagree.So i'm going to speak to thisbroader conversation.7:15 PM7.5 and 7.6 are $340 million.it's a lot of money, and I justwanted to know, takis talked tothat and now he knows the priceof steel.I want to know whetherhow much actual contingency wasbuilt into the originalestimates to have a 35%contingency.I know he sayswithin that contingency, I see21% and now that we know theprice of steel, of course thesecontracts are for engineeringand not for buying steel.Itseems to me we are talking aboutadditional $30 million.I'mhappy to make a motion toapprove these.7:16 PMWe are going to separate themotion.I want to have a separatemotion for .5 first and we'llhave a motion for 7.6.May I have a motion and secondfor 7.5.7:17 PMI will move to approve 7.5.this is glen, I will secondthat.Elaine,Roll call, please.7:18 PM[roll call]Liccardo is recusing.carrasco and chavez are absent.Motion passes.Let's go to the next one,7.6.We have a motion and second.Roll call, please.7:19 PMClerk: [roll call]Carrasco and chavez areabsent.Motion passed.Thank you.Next item.7.7.Action item - authorize thegeneral manager/ceo to execute aprogressivedesign build contractwith kiewit shea traylor (kst),a joint venture, in theamount of $235,000,000 toperform stage 1 services plusallowances in anamount not to exceed $19,000,000for surety bonds and initialearly workpackages, for vta's bart siliconvalley phase ii extensionproject: contractpackage 2 - tunnel and trackwork(contract v20221).Stage 1activities includeinvestigation of innovations,programming services,engineering design services,open book cost estimating, andschedule development.Takis will provide the report.Thank you.today as part of my monthlyupdate I do for you, we aregoing to have twos -- portions.One is information and then Ihave a requested action by you.If you llow me, I will startwith the information piece andthen the action.This is my typical update.Bullet 1 ontinues to inform youthat we have monthly discussionswith fta.Fta is very close toour project and we clearlycommunicate with them.The real estate, Mr. Chair, wehave I think 75 or 77 individualparcels to acquire.We are good.We are really planned as aprogression.We are going to come back inSeptember and come before you togive you the detailedcomprehensive update of everyfashion where we are and how weare doing.I will brief you onthis parcel by parcel.We will continue the technicalmeetings with the stakeholders.You know with the city of sanjose, pg & e.Also director jain knows thisand we are going to begin thestudy of some design issues.Idon't think we are going tofinish our design anddeliberations and finish withthe station? santa clara.We have also workshops with thecity of san jose and the bartstaff.And of course director hendricksmentioned last week on the 27,we had the joint board committeemeeting between vta and bart.You are now familiar with thispage.This is the fourcontracts.I'm using them todeliver this program.The only update I have for youon the systems contract, we areholding back because we want tosee as you are going to hearlater some changes which is tomake-up and in fact he cp 1contract and cp 2 contract.The second one on the trackrecord and we are going to talkabout more on that and that's anaction item.On cp 3, that's the yard of thesanta clara station.We aremaking great progress and onschedule and we are going tospend some time next weektalking about that.The last one is our stationscontract and we are going o bediscussing design and there aresome changes and based on thedesign, we might have to go to adifferent method.Therefore wehave more flexibility in ourhands and as recommended by thelocal governments and so on.The schedule, we are tracking itthe way it is now.The loi ruleshere and that's the rule guideand what we follow.As ofOctober 31st, be ready to sign abeneficiary.We need to get our funding planin place and all that done withthe real etate, everything wehave to do to be ready.Therefore we put the number infor the feds and hopefullyconsider this contract asapproved and for vta lower andup the ceiling has beenbroadcast.With that, Mr. Chairman, ifthat's okay with you, I wouldlike to move to the action item.7:24 PMYes, go ahead.Okay, today some of us have27 months and three weeks and ere-i'm very pleased to come beforeyou to ask you to consider thefollowing action.First let me tell you what thescope of work is here.The scopeof work is to tunnel the one endto the other, 5 miles oftunnelling in san jose.We wantto approve the contract for --tunnelling machine and as themachine goes through, the linerscome and they form the walls inthe tunnel.We have two portalsin the west and east and we needto connect with the berryessatracks and we need to do theexcavation and the connections.We are doing the tunnel and theupcoming stations and then allthe different work we have to dowith the different demolition ofproperties and awards and so on.Just to remind all of you, itwas not too long ago some of usfelt it was essentially westarted in September 2020 and wewent to the industry and weasked the industry, we are doingthis job here, come and give usyour feedback.We receivedtremendous feedback.Thousandswere contracting, and inNovember 2020.We got sevenresponses and request forinformation.Then December 2020, we put outthe qualification request.Weput out the qualificationrequest and we received fivestatements of qualifications.Now here it sounds like aseparate unit five but these aremajor jv companies comingtogether.Probably at some pointwe had 35 contractors in fivedifferent.In May 2021, we qualified threeof those based on ourprocurement process.The legal work.July 2021, we put out therequest for proposal.And we gotcomments and we got the finalrfp in december.In December wegot two proposals.And then injanuary, we establishedevaluators and they considersenior executives on the fiveagencies involved in theprocess.Vta, bart, city of san jose, caltrans.And through their evaluation andscoring system, they performedtheir contract and start thenegotiations and now today isMay and in a few minutes I willask for your action.For that, a selected team, thenumber one, is the jointventure, they are jv.What weare asking you tonight, not toaward the contract.We are notready for that.We are askingyou to award $235 million tostart the stage one for theservices of this contract.Iwill tell you in a second whatthose will buy us and asking youto authorize another 19 millionto buy assurity bonds, and wewant to do some initial work andwhat that means is a sideinvestigation and we get thereports and we say we do alittle bit of work on your ownand tell us if we are on thesame page or if we have toadjust.7:29 PMThe stage one, the 235, plusthe ninety mllion, it will payfor the contract that is maybe100 engineers and we are readyfor them to move in forprogramming services and theninvestigation of potentialinnovations.And then you can read the rest.What that team would do is movethe design to 60 plus percent,they are going to open books andestimate it for us and open upthe construction plan for that.Let me talk about theinnovations.In our program we had therequirement to meet the vta bartcontract to producing these andthey have that.The team hasthat.We do have innovations.Icannot share with you todaybecause they are not mine.Theyare not vta's, they are notbart.They are contractuals orthat purpose and they are reallyvery promising.We talked with them and we bothshare the same feeling.We havesome really promisinginnovations.7:31 PMThe next page, the next stepsyou are assuming to move on withstage 1, we are asking thecontractors to take 90 days andthey determine the innovationscost and scheduled savings.Wedo have this in place.We havebeen working on that.We knowwhat the innovations are, nowthe contractor could give thiscontract and he will put them onthe table and we'll discuss theengineering aspects.Then weneed to continue to elaborate.The contractor asked with bartand city of san jose and santaclara.Yes, even with thiscontract we have some interfacewith santa clara because we knowthe tail of this contract isconnected to the main line ofsanta clara.For that, when thenew innovations come, we Mayhave some tuning to do in thedifferent design aspects.Thatis very important.Then I will come back to yousometime at the end ofseptember, maybe the firstmeeting in october.Your meetingin October and take some timewith my staff and May be arepresentative f the engineerof the contract will take youthrough to show you thisinnovation and the impact on ourschedule and on our costs.I goto page 10 and here are thesteps and timeline.We come backto you in September and willshow you the innovations andwhat the project puts out andthe contractor will show whatthey have to do and this willshow the criteria.Vta and bart.Just be patient in 90 days or sowe will take you through that.Assuming that's okay, I willcome back to you at the end ofthe year, maybe January of nextyear and i'm going to ask yourauthority to go ahead andauthorize some work package.The dbtbm order.They are rightnow 24-28 months long item.Wewant them to come to us to be asafe project to place the order.Then at that time I will ask foryour authority.We have plentyof utilities in the westernpart.Some of these utilities,all of you know, they are verytricky thing.Yes we have theseabilities and designs, but tostart the construction, the sitehas to be prepped and excavatedand then we are ready to go.Then I will come back to you forthe 3rd quarter and then we willfocus more on the stations,diridon and downtown san jose.As you see based on this planbef,I have been before you everyquarter what we know and what isthe progression so on.And after we are in negotiationswith the contractor, I wouldlike all of you to know thenegotiations for stage 2 areopen book negotiations and wehave the price and we think thatprice is what we think it'ssupposed to be.We are going tobe before you sometime I wouldsay the last quarter of 23,maybe early 24 and ask you toauthorize the rest of thecontract of this project.That's our steps forwards havebeen established by contract andjust to go to the next page, i'masking you tonight, we areasking you tonight to authorizean amount of $255 million forstage one to trailer and jointventure and $19 million for theinsurance plans and siteinvestigation.That is my request, that's ourrequest, and i'm here to answerany questions you May have andany further explanations youwould like from us.7:36 PMThank you, takis.we are now going to publiccomments.Clerk: we have five speakers.You May begin speaking whenyou are readypublic speaker: good eveningboard members.I'm with theassociation and representingproperty owners that will beimpacted by this transformativeproject.We view tonight as ouraction to reaffirm his project.The new information that hasemerged and we are here toexpress our support for the peerreview process directed bydirector jones and peralez.Thisshould not delay the projecttimeline.Our priority is to seebart constructed and it's agreat asset.Thank you for yourleadership.7:37 PMThank you. before I call onthe next speakers, Mr. Chair, wehave received two writtencomments, one from siliconvalley and bay area council.These are posted in the vtaportal and also included in thevta agenda packet.NexNext speaker, please.Scott, you May begin speakingwhen you are readypublic speaker: can you hearme?7:38 PMYes. great, thank you.I'm a former resident and nowa resident of monterey county.Iwould like to echo the supportfor the peer review and echothat city and san jose beinvolved in that peer review ofthe committee.Also it would be a time to havea refined cost estimate of thedesigned dual bore alternativecovered thoroughly in theindependent review.Thank you.Thank you.Next speaker, please. mark,you May begin speaking when youare ready.Public speaker: yeah, i'mreally happy to hear the supportof locals.All transit works andwe want to be sure this is partof the great system and bartwants to make sure it isoperating well and to be surethere are entries to both sidesof the street and a concern witha deep dive tunnel instead ofcut and cover station that wouldperhaps not be able to do thisand the cost to see.Which iswhy the independent review iswhat we need now.We need tofigure this out.Because thereis an egg in our face if thefire safety and we want to besure we are doing the rightthing.7:40 PMNext speaker, please. laura?public speaker: good evening,directors, my name is laura, along time supporter of bartphase 2 and at this time we areconcerned about the designparticularly the diridon stationand via double or single borebut to measure the costeffectively.We want to processthis direction from directorjones and peralez today.Wesupport this cp 2 contract anddesign decisions by directingstaff to consider alternativedesign refinement for transfersand safety and by completing anindependent technical analysisand be led by vta, bart and thiscity.We do not think that secondentrances and easy add-ons.7:41 PMNext is eugene, you May beginspeaking when you are ready.Public speaker: good evening,board.I have comments on allthe speakers, particularly Mr.Mesa.It concerns me just seeinga lot of these cost estimatesthat go up.There really needsto be full support of therecommendations from chappiejones and mayor liccardo andperalez on the peer review ofthis.This should not be thefuture, and to just pay for thecost of this.Let's be sure thatyou include passenger access,safety, etc is properly includedin this peer review.Thank you.7:42 PMThank you.james, you May begin speakingwhen you are ready.Public speaker: thank you.My name is james.I grew up andI thank the mayor and memberjones and peralez for this.Toremind you is that the purposeis to make sure we have thistransit service doneeffectively.I would love to bein a world where we can makethis project better and learningtens of miles instead of a few -miles.7:43 PMNext speaker, please.Public speaker: good evening,board members.I wanted to echowhat so many other speakers havesaid in support of the memo fromthe mayor and chair jones andcouncil member peralez, forshowing the leadership to do thereviews of this project, andtaking the approach to measuretwice and cut once for a projectthat is so important for santaclara county and the region, andlooking at opportunities oimprove the rider experience andthe passenger flows and multipleentrances in a way that protectsbusinesses that the firstspeaker was concerned about.Also support the call that vtawork closely with the city ofsan jose and bart will have torun the project in order to dothese reviews.Thank you.7:44 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. youMay begin speaking when you areready.Daniel.Public speaker: hi, i'm aresearcher in the hearingprocess.A lot of outsideobservers for this project seethis as a lassical case as anexponential cost through.It'svery important to see if thereare different alternatives thatcould be considered.So I thinkit's very important for us tosupport this independent costreview.You know, so that we canlook at different alternativesto making sure that cost isreasonable.I think it's veryimportant that this review isindependent, it has people fromacademia, all sorts of differentplaces.Thank you.7:45 PMNext speaker, please. cliff,you May begin speaking when youare ready.Public speaker: hi, thank you.My name is -- I want o thankeveryone involved for their hardwork for bart to silicon valleyin phase 2.As a resident in san franciscowho has worked, i'm lookingforward to taking bart to get towork and seeing friends ndeverything there is to do insanta clara county.I haveconcerns.7:46 PMI'm sorry. please continue.I support the independentreview and have been lookingforward to seeing what thatrevealsreveals.Thank you.Comment.That concludes public -we have one more.Would youallow him to speak?7:47 PMYes, go ahead.Thank you.Ray, you May begin speakingwhen you are ready.Public speaker: good evening,board.I want to say that i'mencouraged by an independentpeer review being discussed bythe mayor and the vta boardmembers peralez and jones.Iwould like to stress that Ithink this peer review shouldalso see an independent costestimate of the dual boredesign.I think it would begreat to have an apples toapples omparison of the womethods especially if he dualbore design is a great method.Iwould like you to keep the callsof other commenters who discussthe need for bart and the cityof san jose to have alsooversight authority of thisindependent review so we are allworking in the same direction.Thank you very much.7:48 PMThank you.we have one more speaker,jordan, you May begin speakingwhen you are ready.Public speaker: good evening,directors, thank you very muchfor your time.My name is jordan grimes,long-term bay area resident.Appreciate your effort.Itreally does inspire confidencein local government and transitagencies to see the concerns ofriders and advocates.It's verymuch appreciated nd also thisindependent review, it sets thetone for numerous transits forall the bay area into thefuture.I hope we get theisright.I hope to accomplish this and Ilook forward to riding it someday.Thank you so much.7:49 PMBlair beakman, you May beginspeaking when you are ready.Public speaker: hi, is this theproper time to talk about wherethe tunnel will be going under.Will it be going under santaclara or st.John one block overby the park which technically itwouldn't get in the way ofdowntown businesses so much andtraffic.It's a much more mellowstreet to do this sort of bartwork on.But mentioned at this time alsohow do we build the diridonstation.I hope it's a more openprocess to understand it betterand I can be part of thisprocess.Thank you.7:50 PMThat concludes publiccommentcomment, Mr. Chair.Thank you for bringing itback to the board.Mayor liccardo. thank you forchallenges and this is a y -significant era and we aregrappling with the same thingand we know we are going to betalking to folks in sacramentoand there is a lot more hat wecan continue to do in parallelwith all of this work as we getgoing on this contract doing theimportant work dealing withutility relocation and all theother work and while we arelooking at that looking at thevery important options in termsof design.I appreciate eeryone's ernesteffort and we'll leave theseoptions very clearly andpublically so we can hopefullybe able to choose, we'll moveforward together and withoutdelay as is emphasized by mycolleagues from the great cityof sunnyvale.I think it'simportant to get this done inparallel and don't hold this upfor any significant yearsbecause every year is a delayand cost hundreds of millions totaxpayers.7:52 PMThere is a memorandum torefer to submitted by memberjones and member peralez andmyself and would ask to movethat with staff'srecommendations.This is peralez. I second.We have a motion and second.I don't see any other handsraised.SoRoll call, please.I think pat just raised hishand.7:53 PMI'm sorry. can we get alittle bit more discussion onthe memo that was referred to sowe are all clear on its scope?Sure.Elaine has the memo.Let me share my screen. wouldit be helpful if takis providedthe information?Yes, and the scope.I will try. this only came upa couple days ago, but I willtry.Let's go to item 2.Directorbert, can you see item 2?7:54 PMYes, I can.what the memo says is thatbefore we take in any actualbullets to award any majorcontract, we have to have ourfunding place.Neither fta willapprove this if we didn't havethe funds.Item b, it is definitely greatlyappreciated.I wanted all of youto know we are a federalproject.We are following thefederal guidelines andregulations on everythingrelated to control the projectand quality assurance and thefederal government has 12 peoplewho are around practically everyweek.For that, this is what wedo and I welcome this.Then on item 3, yes, i'm verywell aware of city council'swork and city government anddefinitely I like thesensitivity that the federalgrants that we could not delayour agreement and we should getwhat we need to get done bythat.I'm moving on.3a.The improved connectivityfor the three transit systems.We need to review that again andwe need to make sure that we arereally accomplishing that.At the downtown station,improved access and safety forpedestrians in the downtownstations for downtown santaclara, yes, we have talked aboutthis before and we do have aconceptual drawing.We choseit's possible that we can havean entrance on the other side.Is it easy, we are going to workit out.But we don't haveenvironmental clearance yet forthat entrance.We need toconsider that now.We don't havethe real estate to do thatentrance, but I know councilmembers they know that we haveto work on this one to get itdone somehow without delayingthis.At both stations you approvedthem and this ear we adoptedand we need to assure thatwhichever we do is goes totransit development and we havesome thinking on that and talkmore later as we explore inthis.Enable and additionalindependent analysis for thesingle bore.I'm aware of thisand I read it.What I would like to do here,mayor, is that I would like totalk to the director of dot, sanjose dot and my counter part forbart and we come together andlook over these items and comeback to you maybe sometime inJune for an update of how we seeall of these items here.I wouldlike to do it with my twocolleagues together because alot of these items are not onlyrelated to the vta project, ofcourse to attery and f courseto the city of san jose.Yes,your message is received here.Then i'm reading now thediscussion here.I'm going downto paragraph a, collaboration,and the department in downtown.You kow, director bert, we dohave a private publicpartnership agreement withgoogle, I don't have the numberright now but something like $75million.We do have it.Definitely we are going todiscuss all of these things andwhat this means.I already mentioned to you thatit's now a must really becausewe have all of these designchanges and accommodations.We start the lump sum, giantbill for the stations.Btb is the contract I hope youapprove now.Yes, yes, yes, i'maware.We had that meeting.Whenwas that meeting, mayor?Youchaired that meeting.7:59 PMI think it was thursday.Yes # # -- i'm very wellaware of this and I don't haveany issues.If I have issues, Iwill come before you.Then the and we need to see thefinal plan.Sometime in the 1stquarter of 2023, I would sayApril or may.We do need to knowthe funding plan.As you knowthey are going to ask to come insix months before the completionof the loi to see where we areand we need a stable fundingplan to respond to thatquestion.Then for a system, yes,absolutely.As a projectmanager, I have been doing thisall of my life.I appreciate themayor and the chairman jones fortaking the initiative to give usguidelines and goals andtargets.Now it's our job for meand my colleague from the cityand bart to put this togetherand come back in june, I hope.And show you how we are going toaddress these things and whoelse we are going to includethat and that will be in thecommittee.8:01 PMThank you. if I might ask aquestion of mayor liccardo.The scope of this looks broadenough to address the concerns,but there has been a questionabout the concept of a peerreview based independent riskassessment.And this really is amore of an internal one incollaboration with our partners,if I understand correctly.Could you speak to this issue ofan independent risk assessment,perhaps by a peer review group?8:02 PMThank you. so i'm justlooking at the language to makesure i'm not getting beyond thewords here.What we wrote was enable anadditional independent analysis.As you know there have beenindependent analysis offered byvarious different transitagencies back to 2017 and I knowwe had atlanta and washingtond.C.And several other citiesthere and heir agenciesrepresented.So i'm not an expert inunderstanding exactly what isthe appropriate standard forwhat is a peer independentanalysis, but it seems to methat we know more now than in2017, and whether it's thoseagencies or independent expert,I want to be sure it's somebodythat actually built transitprojects and not just somebodyfrom an ivory tower.From someone who actually does -it.8:03 PMMayor, if I can respond todirector bert.When my colleagues and I fromsan francisco get together, weare going to address exactlywhat the mayor was saying.Whowe can look for experience basedand professional experience andnot be one of us.By june, Iwill give you some ideas.Maybewe ask the americantransportation association ifthey are willing to run somekind of independent peer review.We May get colleagues from lawho are in the midst now in thepurple line as you know.I don't know yet, that is thereason and yesterday we didn'thave time to process it, buttrust us, we are going to honorthe work here and the spirit.Weunderstand it.8:04 PMWell, I will say that feelthe general thrust of this memooh -- is very constructive andthe key distinction needs tohave the language hat it needsto refer to an independent eerreview.If we need a follow-upmeeting to flush out thesubstance of what wouldconstitute that eer review, i'mwilling to go forward to includethat language at this time, butI would like to see thatlanguage strengthened if we aregoing to do this.8:05 PMThe federal government inJuly of 2020, told us they arewaiting for this project.In2020, the first thing they askedus was for an independent peerreview and the federalgovernment participated in theindependent peer review.We havethe la metro, the water, thechair of dbia, nd I forget, wewere five independent expertsand we reviewed the program.Director bert, if you read thesecond page, it says we agreethat vta has he capacity andthe moneys to do this project.That assessment by the fta andpeer review.That's over management andi'm not questioning that, but wereally need to be looking gainwith these perspective reallysignificant cost over runs, andfrankly mega projects like this,we could encounter greater costsover runs yet than have beenidentified by the fta.And Inoticed in this report that thisnotice is not including anotheradd on mega project risk andthat's something that is reallyunfortunately common in projectsof this scale.So I would bewilling to support the memo aslong as it has that language forthe independent peer review.8:07 PMThrough the chair, if Icould.Takis, I assume you don'thave any concerns with thechange of language?No, I don't.we don't need it.Clarification.Is there a -seconder?Are we okay with theseconder?Yes.Thank you.Great, thank you.All right. it's been adopted.Director hendricks?Yes, as long as we are goingto clarification, I know youdon't have it right now but inthe come back is to identifywhatever part this memo isasking for something is what isneeding for a decision in theOctober timeframe, the scheduleneeds to make sure we get thatinformation for there.I don'twant to be in a situation wherewe said ere we are going to dothis memo and then it has apiece of information for theneed for the October decisionand that doesn't come untiljanuary.I don't know what that isbecause if there is informationthat says we shouldn't goforward or whatever, we needthat in that timeframe.I pointthat out because I think I heardtakis say we probably wouldn'thave all the full funding kindof piece until sometime nextyear.I assume what that meansis we are not going to need thatfor the octoberish timeframei'm very comfortable with thisespecially with theclarification that we hadbefore, but to make sure that weare not signing ourselves up forsomething that we need forOctober that can't be done bythen.So, is that all make sensewhat I said?8:09 PMWe can certainly make surethat you have an indication forwhat you need and what will bepostponed.I want to be sure because Iwant to stay in parallel.Ifsomething comes back to say wecan't do the October decision,that's what the report tells us.I just don't want the decisionsto get delayed for othersequencing reasons.Other than,i'm good with this.Thank you.Thank you.Director jain?Yeah, I just wanted tomention that takis and I havebeen talking about the santaclara station and he referred tothat several times tonight.Iagree that many of theprinciples outlined, the requestin here apply to the santaclarita station, for exampleintegrate high density tod toshare the parking.I believe theparking is somewhat inadequateat the santa clara station.Then seamlessly connecting withthe other transit because that'ssanta clara station and you haveace, cal tran and amtrak andthat should way finding and themodels for how the escalateorswork and how o get the trainfor the certain transitstations.I would like to see amodel.The principles utlinedby directors peralez, liccardoand jones definitely apply tosanta clara.8:10 PMThank you, director jain.I don't see any other handsraised.We have a motion and second.8:11 PMCan we get a roll call vote,please, elaine.Clerk: this is for item 7.7 toapprove the staffrecommendations with a letterfrom peralez with an independentanalysis and independent peerreview.Did I get that right?Yes.8:12 PMGreat.[roll call]I'm going to come back tocarrasco and chavez and they areabsent.Item 7.8 was deferred.Next item7.9.Information item - receivesb 129 joint labor managementcommitteeYes, thank you. April 26th,we did have a managementcommittee joint labor update.Weoffered to bring in the contractto ast fall and we want to havethem remain for another year tocontinue to do the work with ouremployees to give them the toolsto deal with the stress andtrauma.As I did report last month, aninclusive planning.This week weheld a date for family andemployees of the victims to comeand have closure of thebuilding.I would like to think our mentalhealth partners from the wilsoncenter who actually are stillout there this evening, weposted dates and times of 5-8was the window of opportunitythis evening.They are there with employeesand family members who wish tosay their good-byes.The culture and climate changework remains a priority for thiscommittee, and we will bebringing the item back to theboard for consideration nextmonth.Lastly in my report arethe plans that we carefullyprepared for the one yearremembrance.May 26, we willhave a private vigil to honorthe lives lost one year ago.The ceremony will be livestreamed for those who can'tattend early in the morning willview privately and will be inour youtube channel.Followingthat ceremony, the resiliencycenter will be open foremployees to gather infellowship and from 9-10 therewill be an event in the grassarea near the center wherecommunity leaders will cometogether and publicallyrecognize the day and honor thefirst responders and that willbe open to the public.That is it.That's my report.Happy to answer any questionsyou May have.8:15 PMThank you, brandy. Iappreciate it..We will now takepublic comment.Mr. Chair, I see no handsraised.I will close public comment.now I will go to my colleaguesand for questions for brandy.Don't see any hands raised.We are going to the next itemwhich is item 8.For other items, 8.1, itemsof concern and referral toadministration.Board member hendricks?I'm not sure if this is theright spot but i'm going to tryhere.Earlier we were hearingabout the berman bill and i'mgoing to sk if I can have thatagendaized to the g & a calendarto discuss that since it's anissue and let the g & a talkabout that.8:16 PMOkay, that's appropriate.Thank you.Are there any other items ofconcern or referral?If not, are there anyannouncements?Seeing none for 8.3. Ibelieve we were able toaccommodate everyone who wantedto speak on items that were noton the agenda.We are going to9.Closed sessiona.Threat to public services orfacilities[government code section54957(a)]consultation with the followingstaff:through x.Is there anyone who would liketo ask questions about text 9.1through 9.X?8:17 PMWe have one, Mr. Cair.john, you May begin speakingwhen you are ready.Public speaker: yeah, maybe youdidn't see it but my hand hasbeen up for a minute.I'm not so certain that theculture change piece will becoming in front of the boardnext month.I don't know if Iheard that correctly.So I don'tknow what's going to happen withthat piece.I wanted to say thatit's been a year.And we've allhad a eally rough year.My proximity to the event waspretty close, but you all wereeffective, and every person inthis county, every person on theboard obviously has beeneffective.I wanted to open our arms at &tu t# -- atu to ask you towelcome you to be there today.And I wanted to offer to theboard to be nice to yourself and