Good evening, everyone. this is the regular board meeting of valley transportation authority. I would like to call this meeting to order. Thank you for attending our board meeting tonight. The first item on the agenda is call to order and roll call 1. 1. Administer oath of office to newly appointed member5:32 PMCouncil memb go ahead and administer the oath. Without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter.5:33 PM> you are official. welcome to vta. Thank you.Congratulations. suds. happy to be here. Before we do the roll call, I would like to note that the santa clara county -- vta has made a changed to the board. Supervisor will be now one of the members. At this time, that group has not yet been determined. With that, I would like to ask my colleagues to please turn onyour mic and video for roll call.5:34 PMClerk: blankley, bert, carrasco, chavez, davis, hendricks, attending, jain, lee, lee eng, peralez, constantine,rennie. We have a quorum. Thank you.1. 3. Orders of the day any changes from my colleagues? I don't see any. There are no changes. I'm ready for a motion. On the next item which is retirement commendations joinings tonight is of service; maurice beard, bus technical training supervisor, for 30 years of service; and participated in the grant and vta's first bus simulator. Maurice, thank you for your 30 years of dedicated service. Congratulations on yourretirement and we wish ou the best. May we have a photo?5:37 PMThank you, everyone. the other members who are not able to attend tonight are recognizing roberthannibal, coach operator, for 35 years of service; hector alvarado, coach operator, for 31 years of service; greg he provided excellent service to those who served. For 31 years of service; greg bushner, light rail maintenance instructor, for 31 years of service. He also performed overhauls and coauthored the high rail responses. And glenn haugen, upholstery shop foreperson, for 26 years of service. He worked well with colleagues and provided outstanding service. I have done the math and these members have over 100 years of service. The board commends them for their commitment to vta and the community. Next on our agenda reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction but not on the agenda. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. This section of the agenda is limitedto no more than 30 minutes but could be extended at the discretion of the chairperson. Those who requested to speak but were unable to address the board on item #3 due to the time limit will have the opportunity to address the board on the second public comment, under 'other items'. The law does not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under specialcircumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing.5:40 PMBefore we call our speakers, I would like to remind the speakers to adhere to our rules. First, irect your comments to the board and not to any specific person. Personal attacks are not appropriate and neitherslanderous or profane remarks are prohibited, making threats or citing violence is not allowed. Anyone disrupting or with these remarks will not be allowed to participate in the meeting. If you want to addressthe board on matters not on the agenda, please press star 9 on your phone.5:41 PMClerk: thank you. I do want to note for the record that we have received three comments which have been posted on the agenda portal. We have five public speakers. First speaker will be john followed by corrina and serena. John, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Good eening, board members, chairperson jones. I'm john courtney, president for the acau. I would like to state thank you for continuing to work during the pandemic and for vta for the continuing workers and it's sad due to this pandemic. Long tenure folks for whatever reason don't want to get vaccinated. You have a choice. You get vaccinated or you do not work. We have many who have been vaccinated and already hadcovid. What is the goal here?5:42 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please.Next speaker, please.Next speaker, please. corrina. Public speaker: currently mandates are holding against the state by the supreme court and vta does not have to require this. There is a spread of covid and what's going to be the final end. It's not the vaccine. It's boosters upon boosters. Every employee needs to complete their job.They can't remove it after their shift is over. Vta needs to remember that you employ these employees and you don't own them. It's been two years, going through the pandemic, going through the shooting. I almost lost my husband in that shooting only to be told now that he is expendable. He can lose his job if he doesn't do what is required.5:44 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. serena?Public speaker: today I have chosen to speak against the vaccine mandate. Everyone who wants to receive it have already received it. People should not make decisions about a vaccine for something we do not have enough information. When everyone else was reaching these mandates and vta was not, we thought they would standby their employees and their families. My father is a sole provider. Please do not make him go against our beliefs. Thank you.5:45 PMThank you, serena.Next speaker, please. harry, you you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello, this isdirected towards director jones. Congratulations. In the vta where it announced your new position it states that you are leading effort beyond street corridor and deanza college. I ask that you please consider light rail for that project. The corridor will undoubtly become denser in the next few decades and the light rail will give few opportunities for that area sustainably and cars and especially the things along hat corridor notably santana road and cupertino will greatly benefit from pedestrian traffic without the need to build additional parking. Now valle fair has begun to check mark -- charge for parking. This can help. 35:46 PMFinal speakers. emery? You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: good evening,members of the board, I find it astonishing that those members who take up admonition for office, you ought to provide exemptions. Someone decided whether or not it's someone who you hired judges an exception and again to be judged. Forcing people in a very and to lose our families and because you deem it necessary to be injecting with a vaccine that some of us believe is not5:47 PMThank you. our next speaking is eric. You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: good evening to the board. My name is eric chavez. Seu coordinator. I stand with my brothers with 265 who are against this mandate who have no choice. It is totally unfair to put this upon employees who when they were hired, it was not a term of employment. Now making it one is not giving them a right choice. So, there has to be another way, there has to be a testing option available. I'm standing with my brothers of local 265. And i'm against this mandate. Thank you very much for your time. .5:48 PMClerk: thank you. our final four speakers are wade, followed by roseta. Wade, you May begin speakingwhen you are ready. Public speaker: yes, my name is wade, I once again stand ith my brothers and sisters on this mandate. I do not think it's right that vta is telling us that we have to get something that is injected into our bodies. Once again, when got hired on 29 years ago, I was never told that I had to putsomething into my body. Furthermore, do we not live in a free country because when you should told by an employer that you must do this or you will be fired. Now we don't have a choice. People should have achoice to get the vaccine. If they don't, there should be some alternatives to weekly testing and I know vta should provide that. They should not be you get jabbed by this needle because I say so. Thank you very much for your time.5:50 PMClerk: thank you.Next speaker, please.Next speaker, please.Next speaker, please. rosita? You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hello, my nameis rosita. I'm against the vaccine. I don't know how it helps me perform my job duty. It should be a free choice as it has been for most of the citizens, and I don't agree with this policy put in place. We are looking at either losing your job or, I think I read a line in that policy that states there is going to be testing. We need to all be tested. Everyone is contracting this virus. I don't understand how this affects us, how this helps me perform my ob duty. This voucher, it should be free choice. Thank you.5:51 PMThank you. art, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello?Yes, we can hear you.Okay, thank you. we dealt with this pandemic and essential workers and at vta, we are a family and now having to lose your job because of the pandemic is being expendable. The jobs are required and positions for years. This company has had positions that have been vacant for years. This can affect employees mental health, cause depression. You have dedicated workers and now more than ever this is reachingtowards us. The vaccine should be a choice and not put in front of us. Thank you.5:53 PMPublic speaker: to get something that is not proven to keep our jobs. This is not even right. This is a free country. We should be able to to give a choice if we decide to get this vaccine or not. If they are testing, that is a better alternative. I should have a choice with what goes into my body, not who employs it. Thankyou.Thank you. raj, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board.Management has decided to force this on employees. Every year e have a cancellation in the division and this is made to be worse. We have had people working for this come for 20 plus 25 years. They are outstanding and dedicated workers performing their job to the best of their abilities. For the past year, we have been at times what we would go back, we have been looking at timelines and going back to thisservice. I think the numbers of the board if you ask yourselves, how will we ring transit back when we are facing the loss of 10-15% of our workforce. On top of this, i'm sure you are all aware.5:55 PMNext speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hi, my name is janelle. I did get vaccinated and I was retested and it came out negative. I lost over 10 days of pay and having to file I I -- I and having to file all that paperwork is wrong. It was the end of the year and I didn't have sick time. I think vta should pay their members if they are positive. They should bring it back through September at the end of the month. Thank you, sorry.5:56 PMThank you.Next speaker, please.Next speaker, please. blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hi, this is blair.The downtown san francisco bart station just opened their bathrooms for the first time since 911. We really need to build on these policies and guidelines that can really address all sides of an issue and for this process about the vaccine process and talk about what our better practices are as a community and for thecommunity to wanto ask questions. Good luck with ourselves at this time. Thank you.5:57 PMThank you.Martha? you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello, can you hear me? ?Yes.Hi, my name is martha. i'm definitely against there vaccine. I myself am not vaccination vaccinated.Someone came to work and coughed on me. I had to stay out 10 days and I tested negative. I don't see how being vaccinated is going to keep me from getting covid. Don't believe in this. I believe we are in the united states of america and we have the right to have a voice, and this is my voice. Please stop this mandate. Thank you.5:58 PMNext speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hello, my name is tiedas. I'm against this mandate. I think it's wrong. I was there hen this guadalupe shooting happened and I almost lost my life and now i'm forced to take this vaccine that I don't believe in. I haven't beenvaccinated and it's been four years since I have been sick. I think it's wrong. Help us with a lot of unresolved issues here. Now it's like we are forgotten about. We don't have a say and it's wrong. I'm against it and I stand with everybody else. Let us make our own decisions. Thank you for letting me speak.5:59 PMThank you.6:00 PMYou May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: after the event at vta, you are wrong for making us do that. You are putting a financial stress on homes, families and our communities. You are crushing our children's dreams. My children's dreams. One of my kids led her team to the north cubs and is in second place and her aspiration stop and go to college and play. When you look in the mirror tonightask yourself if your policies and your virtue signaling more work than ental health in communities and workplace and homes are communities worth it?6:01 PMOur next three speakers. you May begin when ready.Public speaker: h, good evening. Can you hear me?Yes, we can.I'm an operator for 10 years and I love this shop. I just want to come on to say that i'm against the vaccine policy. I feel like it should be a chose. The vaccine doesn't revent you from getting covid. It doesn'tmake sense for any of us that want to get it. I had covid in 2020 and I was fine. I'm against the vaccine. I feel like if you are a high risk, you should get the vaccine but if you don't want to get it, that's also fine. I feel that enforcing this vaccine is going to cause so many problems. You are forcing people to choose when it shouldn't be that way. I feel like --6:02 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: can you hear me?Yes.Thank you. I want to reiterate what has been said. This virus is disproportionately affecting the elderly and people with comorbidity. Younger people are not affected despite what you are hearing in the news. Thevast majority of deaths are 3 people 55 and lder and those overweight and diabetic. But if you are young, you are pretty safe from this. Mandating the vaccine to healthy and young is unnecessary. Like john, our first speaker, our president, people that are getting getting vaccinated are still getting it and spreading it.6:03 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready linda. Public speaker: hi, I have beenwith vta for 22 years and have gone from the whole process from driving to mechanic. I love my job. I don't want to have to choose. I don't want to have to be able to to take a shot that I don't believe in in order to keep my job. And i'm sure a lot of us that are voicing our opinions here, we all feel the same way.It shouldn't be mandated. It should be a free choice. I just wanted to put that out there. Thank you.6:05 PMThank you, linda.Kiko, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: i'm against this. You are going to do this, you should follow up with the mandate and safety for us, disinfect our yards, our buses. We see signs all over the place but there is no enforcement on vta's part to be sure we are safe and healthy. Identify not seen it. As earlier speaker said that vaccinated people are spreading the disease as well as unvaccinated.We pay the price if we get vaccinated and get sick off another test result. We lose time and we haveservice. Please make an educated choice.6:06 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: all right. Can you hear me?Yes, we can.My name is alex banuelos and with vta since 2007. I'm vaccinated. I don't think there is anything wrong with being vaccinated as long as it's your choice to be vaccinated. Nobody should be forced and this policyseems ike a very gross over reach. It's a fact that they told us if we are vaccinated, we can still get covid, we can still spread covid. So I don't see how forcing people who don't want to be vaccinated to get vaccinated and threatening their livelihood is going to resolve anything. If anything, it's going to make themembership, the union membership and anyone else.6:07 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please. shawna, you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: can you hearme?Yes, we can.I'm shawna, adio dispatcher with vta for 10 years. I had covid before the vaccine was available. I have been vaccinated and boosted. It is my choice. I choose to believe me science. My coworkerers -- on't and I can't blame them for that. We are losing so much service now. Everyday that's all I do as because coworkers are not coming to work. If people test positive, they have to stay home and no one is going to pay them because the i-i doesn't work. And it has never paid. So vta needs to really step back and take a moment.6:08 PMOur final three speakers is marcus, john and liz. Public speaker: can you hear me?Yes, we can.Hi, my name is marcus. I have been with this company for three years. I worked hard to get this job and to keep it. I think this vaccine mandate is unfair. We serve a whole spectrum of people in the public. We never know whos going to go in our bus that is vaccinated and not vaccinated. I don't want to lose my job.We are all reasonably intelligent people. If we wanted the vaccine, we would have gotten it by now. I just want to remind you guys that this company stays moving off the backs of people that are off right now.God bless you.6:09 PMThank you, marcus. jessie, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, can you hear me?Yes, we can.6:10 PMI'm right there with all of my brothers and sisters. I'm a vta transit mechanic. For vta to put a mandate onsomething that should be a medical choice is absolutely ridiculous. I think sam liccardo is to blame. He doesn't care about the constitution. He's been trying to enforce it in san mateo county. When you have tovote, that's what we have o do. He's got to go. He stinks. Our final speaker is liz. Again begin public speaker: my thing is I agree with everybody that is here speaking and obviously we are against these mandates. My thing is if vta is so concerned about our safety, why aren't we promoting health. Almost every gym around the area is open except our gym. If you want to mandate with being healthy, let's start with caring about our drivers and promoting this that we run the risk of with diabetes and heart disease. Ifyou are mandating healthy, why don't you have that and elping people make right choices. The vaccine, is not there.6:11 PMChair, this is elaine from the board office. It is 30 minutes for items of public comment not on the agenda.We have one hand raised. Would you like us to take that and that will be the end of public comment.6:12 PMWe ill take additional public comments under other items. So everyone who wants to speak will have an opportunity to speak.Hank you.So that closes public comments for now. I do not have tems under item 4. So we will now move on to reports. We will now go to item 5. Reports. Item 5. 1. A. 5. 1. A. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (swaminathan) chair, he is unable to join us tonight. The report is in the agenda.6:13 PMThank you.(pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore)Thank you. I reelected myself to serve and campbell to serve as the vice-chair. We ask that the board of directors approve cupertino trail east project in the fiscal year 2021-2022 countywide transportation toprovide a little bit over $1 million for this project. The committee also requested some information about the countywide bicycle plan. We received a presentation on resources developed by vta to assist localjurisdictions with implementation f senate bill 743 and with transportation of level of service with vehiclemiles traveled and reviewed the status of the process of the santa clarita transportation fund for clean program manager and on going santa clara county registration activity. The next meeting is scheduled for thursday, February 10, 2022 at 4:00 p. M. And will be conducted as a zoom teleconference. Thank you.6:14 PMThank you and congratulations on being reelected. Next is reports rom item 5. 1c. Chairpersons' report.(verbal report) that is in the online packet. There is no report for chairpersons' report. (verbal report) we will now take public comment on item 5. 1 committee reports. Do we have any speakers?6:15 PMClerk: yes. it looks like we have two public speakers. Joe, followed by blair. You May begin speaking when ready.Can everyone hear me?Yes.Thank you. joe here. I want to thank the board for the advisory board committee and support vta this year.Thank you for having me.6:16 PMThank you, joe.Next speaker, please. blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: thanks for thisitem. The vta is a great company made up of people across the county. An interesting group. It gave me a lot of hope and positiveness that you are really building the cac well and continuing its good tradition.Thank you. Something we can all rely on. From tat, I will offer a few items. As hopeful and as sustainable as working on the trail can be for ourselves, I hope we can be considering that it could possibly work towards a name change in the upcoming decade and good luck on how we can work on that and thank you.6:17 PMThank you. that concludes public comment.Public comments for items 5.1 are now closed. That takes us to item (verbal report)The first item right now as you have heard from public speakers from Thursday January 27th, they heard about our vaccination policy and this is where the health experts are as the most effective way to prevent covid-19 and reduce the chance of severe illness and we embarked on this campaign. All vta employees and contractors are required to be fully vaccinated by April 29, 2022 as a condition of employment. The employees May apply for an extension and we have hired a third party to communicate with the employees to rovide an exemption nd that has been brought forward to the vta management. You can see a list ofcommunication here to get the word out. We have a union leadership with monthly meetings as well asadditional meetings, not specifically I would say on the vaccination, but it was mentioned in our meetings.I did have a draft of the policy and we gave them a courtesy copy, a final copy as well before we sent out to the employees. We did an email postal services and that took light of time working with the unionleadership and answered questions that they would ask and provided information on the website to access.There are qr codes with the policy and able to easily access the policy on their smartphones. In addition, we are able to schedule vaccine clinics for our employees. We continue to be diligent in carrying out safety measures since the beginning of the pandemic. We have had 254 since the beginning of the pandemic and we are protecting our employees. We stopped inside meetings and closed the employee areas. Only training with six feet of distance can be maintained with employees and only currently allowed. We havemade testing available at the sites and May get vaccines at the vta sites and that is for employees and families as well. We have kits for employees to use these at sites for quicker results so if negative,employees can return to work more quickly. Face covering is still required for maintenance and drivers ofthe vehicles. We continue to do that with our workforce. It is an ever changing situation and I understand the frustration that many of our employees feel at times. The state grants, I want to talk a little bit about two new grants we have. These are good news. The funding, January 26th, vta received some very exciting news in the form of $7. 4 million grant from the california energy commission. This grant is for the funding needed for icro grid which is a battery and this charging system will allow vta is to scale and be in compliance by 2040. The solar panels will allow us for greener energy sources which allows the goal ofsustainability plan. Another piece of funding came from the california strategic growth council for our transient oriented development which is awarded in $29 million to the core companies, the vta's partners for affordable housing and projects. And played a key role and required to successfully compete in theseawards. The grant award is necessary for obtainable affordable housing. The $18 million is for the thedevelopment f the properties and to create new bus shelters and lighting and lockers at transit plaza. Light rail maintenance is for significant service that will take place the weekend of February 5th and 6. This workwill require some temporary bus bridges. We are carrying out a campaign so the passengers are aware.Crews will be swapping out ties for replacement. During construction, both virginia and children's iscovery museum stations will be closed and the bus bridge will be in effect between the convention centers and the stations. Next month there are going to be replacing tracks and this work is beginning February 17th andexpected to finish March 5th. This track work started in the middle 1980s, and we need to replace them. To perform this work, this is from February to March 4th. Buses will be used during the certain ime of construction. And we continue to inform our passengers. The express lane will be opened next Friday on the 11. We plan to have an advertisement on the 10 and will be on facebook live. We have the wide map to 237 to the san mateo county board along palo alto. We are planning this launch for cal trans and will continue in san mateo county through the south section of san mateo county. This will be 12 miles of fastertravel up the peninsula. That concludes my report. For 5. 2 there is an update in your packet for government affairs and the ridership and safety and security tips. I'm happy to answer any questions.6:26 PMThank you, caroline. we will now take public comment on this item.ClerkClerk: thank you, chair. . We have four speakers. John? You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: good evening again. Thank you for requiring the vaccine mandate. It's true when vta wants to get something done, they do their due diligence and track whatever you want. Meanwhile, I know you can't dothis overnight and you are work6:27 PMCommissioner Liz workman: in working hard at it but there are other things. There are employees suffering from mental health problems and to make the vaccine mandated and as you said communication with wrkers, t doesn't change anything. It just makes people more angry and we feel like our heads are in anadvice. This is not the same place.Our next speaking is anne marie. You May begin speaking when you are ready.Hank you. thank you. I can tell you that it is so hypocritical to mandate a vaccine when break rooms wereliterally closed two weeks ago. The sanitation of our buses and our break rooms, our facilities in general is not well done before. It is not existing at this point. The covid prevention booklet that was sent out toeverybody in october, it's not followed. Mask mandate is not followed. The simple thing that helps prevent the spread of covid is not being followed. And that is here the frustration of your employees comes in. This is not by any means creating a harmonious workplace.6:29 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please. eugene.My question about the use of the bus stations and are officers being there and also are local police being used patrolling everything. The concern I have seen riding the buses and transit they are not safe to ride in addition to these sanitation issues that john and the others brought up.6:30 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. Good luck on how we can talk about this issue more clearly. I think it will help a lot. The vaccine mandate process isn't supposed to go into effect until april. That will give us time to negotiate and consider. I hope like I said before there can be flexibility and forgiveness ideas and to really considerate public comment time, how exactly can we talk about he vaccine itself and how can people feel comfortable and allow for time to allow for both. Really it'simportant we stress health issues and chicago teachers union and stuff.6:31 PMNext speaker, please. myelo, you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: my name ismylo, transit mechanic. I believe the vaccine mandate is unnecessary at this time. You stated it was not required for all employees but come to find out, a lot of employees don't know about it at this time. So, it needs to go through tail gates, through each supervisor because a lot of people don't know about this mandate. Also, like cleaning, that has been stopped. All the anitiz sanitizization of the uses and yards, it needs to be back to the way it was.6:33 PMPublic speaker: hello board. I just got over covid and I was vaccinated. So I am not against the vaccine by any means but I stand in support of everybody's choice. As I union representative, I required to represent all the members equally, vaccinated, unvaccinated. I think you heard it loud and clear from our members who stood up tonight to let you know that they are against this policy. And vta has a choice. They have. So they can provide weekly testing option that I think would be a safer option because they would not beprovided in the workforce. I ask that you look for the loss of service per month and look --6:34 PMClerk: next three speakers are kiko, jay, and karena. Public speaker: this is following up on stating that you are working on sanitation. The yards, the buses, they are not being enforced by all the paperwork that you are taking up on the windows and stuff like that. Also, with the people being out, there are no releasefor some perpetrators have shown us erlier, she's trying to keep the public and a lot of us operators in the yard. If we don't get relief drivers, that means were in our buses. If we are going with the mandate, withpolicies and social distancing if you really care about the public, you would care about us to do so.6:35 PMThank you. jay, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, good evening, this is jacqueline. I come from a long line of vta family members that have helped grow your business and loyallyserved. I want to speak tonight because the fight is not ultimately whether the vaccines work or not but t's far more than the mandate, about the direction that the country is going and vta is going. When you look at the website on vta's core values, it states they value safety and integrity, quality, but where is theintegrity when you take away freedom from your own members. I'm asking you to stop the mandate and follow the constitution. Thank you.6:36 PMThank you. cor corina, you May speak when you are ready. Public speaker: I want to state that you have all taken oath to follow the constitution. So just like he last person said, we need to stay in ine with that,but in addition to that, the board member that read the report said there was flyers and information on the website in regard the tho this. My husband wasn't called in and also the policy states that by February 17th, I don't think people are aware of this, that they need to submit a form to the third party if theirreligious beliefs are believable. That's absurd for someone to be able to make that type of a judgment.6:37 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. janelle, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening,again, my name is janelle rubio, 265 member. I have been at vta for over 11 years. I'm going to touch on something that I just heard about violence on our property and violence on our buses. I have had a gun pulled on my coach three weeks after the movers on May 26. I am still waiting for someone from vta to get back to me. I had no sheriff's, I had no supervisors come to my bus at 6:30 p. M. On June 16th. I am very upset about listening to people say the violence is down. A friend of mine got his head beat up while he was driving the coach. Another friend of mine, his nose broken. No, the violence hasn't changed. My concern is after May 26, we were never trained. # # # public speaker: my name is frank. I would like to apologize to all the serrat -- vta employees. In the last 22 years, I have never been so disappointed. At what point do you stop blaming employees. At what point do e stand up to say this is not okay. Thank you very much for your time.6:39 PMThank you, frank. our inal two speakers, mary, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello, my name is mary juarez. I am, my family, my son-in-law works there. I am more concerned for the action that you are trying to push on be taking away their livelihood and eventually have to move away. This is not right. I am a vaccinated person. I believen it, but because of my age, my own believe, but I do not, I do not believe nd I stand strong for the freedom of each individual. It should never be mandated or have to be pushed upon, religion or politics, anything. I believe it's an individual decision.This is wrong. There are so many other things that the company should be focusing on that is not being addressed, buckley, you May begin speaking when you are ready. We will come back to you. Rosita, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, good evening again. This is rosita. I just wanted to speak again about the policy that was set in place, the vaccine policy. You talked about closing off the break rooms, where is everybody, you need to put money into sanitation, into cleaning our buses, cleaning all the common areas, not closing the fitness center, the weight room, promote, mandate health like mentioned earlier. Promote health amongst the employees. This isn't fair. This is a free country, and you are forcing this on us. We have to make a life choice decision whether we get this vaccine or lose ourjob. My husband was exposed to someone and lost days. Vta is not compensating aybody.6:42 PMNext speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready ready. Public speaker: hello. Can youhear me?Yes. we can. this is james buckley. I have over nine years with vta and local 265 and i'm willing to give up my nine years and not vest because what you have going on. I keep hearing about this sanitation going on which is completely false. This is not happening. You should stop forcing this mandate on people. That's where I stand and you stand to lose a lot of employees over this.6:43 PMThank you. our final speaker is harry. You May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: I would just like to say that all these people being quite angry about this vaccine mandate, you are mandated to get a ton of vaccines to go to school as a kid. I don't know your mad about one nw. There is a little bit of fault with the vta, you guys should be keeping on sanitizing just the way you did at the beginning of the pandemic. It should not wine down with the pandemic going on. There is a little bit of fault at both sides, but really one vaccine mandated when you have had 12 or 15 as a child just to get in school is not a big deal and people need to stop being that mad about it. Thank you.6:44 PMThank you.# # that concludes public comment.Thank you. public comment for item 5. 2 is now closed. I see member peralez has question.6:45 PMThank you. I apologize because my internet has been down. I'm on my cllphone. I'm not sure if this is more appropriate to direct towards a future closed session topic. I do have a lot of questions related to the vaccine mandate. I think one of them carolyn is that this does appear to have been an administrative decision. We haven't had a discussion at the board in public or n closed session, and I do think considering the potential applications that would be important to have. We've had those conversations at the san jose city council and having the closed session conversations really helped prior to going out and engaging with our bargaining units and our workforce. I can wait until later in the agenda to recommend it, but I think, I would like to have that discussion maybe more thoroughly with you and the administration. Carolyn.Thanks.6:46 PMI'm not sure if it needs an item of approval but I will talk to council about that.Director liccardo?Thank you, chair. . Carolyn, just a question, just listening to the public regarding the vaccine requirement.One of the employees stressed very early on about apparently workers not being paid for sick leave duringthe time which they had contracted the virus and the i-i, i'm not sure what that stands for. Would that be looked into?6:47 PMYes, I have it written down. it's complicated and to let you know as many as elected officials, the government has given another 80 hours of leave but will have to be as of December 1st and we'll have tolook at how to charge and bring that back. I definitely need to work through that now. We need to take a look at exactly the full policy and make it very clear and making sure we are not penalizing people as we go forward in the future.6:48 PMThank you, caroline. I assume that you are also taking notes. The woman whose name I did not catch related an assault in june.I did get her name and a whole ist of other concerns of people raising issues.Thank you. I appreciate the suggestion of director peralez, it's certainly worth having the discussion. I do support vaccine mandate. I think it's important for the proceedings o help the employee who is vaccinated as well as for all employees, the vaccine does reduce as well as not likeliness of serious illness but work toensure that our workforce is protected. Thank you very much.Thank you.6:49 PMThank you. that is all the hands that were raised. We are going to the next item, 5. 3. Chairperson's report. Every year, black history is celebrated in america to celebrate black history. Why? Because the second month coincides with both dates of abraham lincoln and douglas. Abraham lincoln worked to freethe slaves and douglas was a slave. They were each born in february. It was a time when africanamericans were celebrating the honor of emancipation. I would like to speak to rosa parks whose birthday is tomorrow, February 4th. She was born in 1913 and lived to be the age of 92. Now, the association from the study of african american life an history designated a new theme from black history month each year.This year's theme was changed, black healthy wellness and through health care providers. The theme isexpressly appropriate as we end the third year of the covid-19 pandemic. Which has disproportionatelyaffected minority communities and placed burdens on black health professionals. As we work towards this, please keep in mind how the deadly virus of covid-19 does not affect just you and me but every family and we need to do everything to be sure everyone is safe. Please make the best decisions to protect yourselves, your loved ones and your communities from this serious disease and death. I ask that you take the time to celebrate our black history month and heroes not only this month but everyday. Next, I will like to speak to our general manager carolyn about how the board can support vta moving frward. Carolyn hascrafted her vision in the vta forward plan which he detailed to us in december. I am particularly want tohighlight the theme of the 21 priorities outlined in this first phase. The stabilized phase and the team dedicated to building the vta team. It is critical to fill leadership roles and develop a strong team that takes ownership of the general manager's vision and carries it out with their teams from recruiting bus operators to maintenance workers to building a bench of future leaders. Everyone has an opportunity to become a part of. I ask that every employee that participates to provide your ideas and not just problems without solutions. This is both a scary and exciting time for vta. In all 2113 employees can participate in this and I look forward to supporting you in these priorities. That concludes my report. # we will now take public comment for the chair's report.6:53 PMPublic speaker: thank you, chair jones for speaking on black history month. Thank you. I would like to know how we can consider the idea of rosa parks and birmingham, our boycott. A whole interesting group that did some really mellow decent work but at a time incredibly important work to make sure better practices for our future. And how we can learn from them and maybe the atu can learn some good lessons about anning together and working towards worker health and safety issues within different places at thistime. Good luck how we can work for the future of will vaccine mandate together. Thank you.6:55 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. #Public comment for item 5.3 is now cosed. That will take us to item (verbal report) committeetion and finance (a&f)- 6. 1 through 6. 13. Members who would like to address the board on any item, please raise your hand. Anyone who would like to speak to thie consent agenda or pull an item.6:56 PMYes, I don't want to pull an item but on January 12th, it says that I called the meeting to order and I believe it was actually chair jones who did that.Thank you, we will make that correction.Thank you. director chavez?Thank you, I want to recuse myself from item 6. 4 and 6. 8.Anyone else? Mr. Liccardo?6:57 PMI would like to also recuse myself.Anyone else?Chair jnes, i'm going to abstain from 6. 1 too since I did not attend the January 6th meeting.Thank you, Mr. Jain. anyone else? We will now have public comment for the consent calendar.Clerk: thank you, chair. looks like we have two speakers. John followed by blair. John, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello again. John courtney, president of the atu local 265. I want to talk about the contract that you are about to award. And the way they treat us during covid andforcing us to file this procedure and forcing us to get an attorney. This is not the way this agency should behave. You have the absolute moment, you can make a decision tonight to deny that contract to tristar orminimize that contract to find a better vendor. They are a horrible company nd transitional programs do not exist under tristar guidance and leadership. And we need to do a better job towards worker'scompensation. Thank you.6:58 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: all right. Thank you, blair beakman. About 7. 2, assuming that is part of the consent.6:59 PMBlair, that's not part of the consent agenda. 7. 2 is part of the regular agenda.Thank you for making that clear. I will move on then to the joint powers board. The meeting minutes powers board. Good luck how we can work with san jose and santa clara county for high speed issues and I think it's fuzzy in the work it continues and you also have an item about thank you for your time.Thank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: daniel, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I had dealt with tristar in another agency that they basically said I have to go to because of an -- i-i and I had to go to another provider and I said I got hurt and they said no, you need to go back to work. And I want to say that even previous to this covid stuff going on, they were also denying actual claims that I can provide proof that I actually did have a claim. It's not just covid that they want to push and deny. Theywant to push and deny everything they possibly can.7:01 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: good evening, tristar is not a good company. They should not be denying claims. They should ask them how many claims they are approving. There should be better ways to be handling their claims. I want to agree with everything that john said. Thank you.Thank you. that concludes public comment.Now I see there are two hands raised from the board. Director peralez?Yeah, thank you. I don't have, or i'm not part of the admin and finance committee. So I haven't ad a betterunderstanding of this contract, this action item 6. 1. I think i'm happy to pull it and see if taff wants to talk about it today if there is an urgency on extending this contract. If there is not an urgency, I would prefer deferring that item by a month to give me at least an opportunity to have a better understanding with staff off line. I'm happy to hear from staff.7:02 PMThank you. can staff respond?I appreciate the comments tonight. Judith is here to talk about this. Judith, do you want to respond to the timeframe and whether it's necessary tonight?7:03 PMThe contract is scheduled to expire July 1st. We certainly can allow another month for review. With that said, I will tell you that tristar is covered by the california worker's compensation commission and theyinvestigate every claim. The specific parameters in regards to covid that allow for denial are different than other worker's compensation cases, but any case is investigated and reviewed by the department anddecision is made by enterprise management to see if an investigation can be upheld and whether the claim should be denied or accepted come the -- come # -- compensate.7:04 PMI just had a question. I approve the following items.There is a motion and second? okay. Director chavez?Thank you, i'm supportive of deferring the action for a month. What I would actually recommend is that, we did hear this at committee. We asked a number of questions about customer satisfaction and, youknow, I would just say to our friends in the labor movement and those who have experienced concerns about tristar that one thing and I will say this on my own behalf, but when we have an item with such specific interest to our employees that we have to work with the bargain units to alert them because it would have been great to have this discussion in committee. What I would like to recommend is that we can put t back in our committee agenda so that way if you want to get a little bit more into the weeds. Or perhaps if it makes more sense to hold this for two months instead of one so if there are other committees could go through so that way that more board members get a chance to dive into the issues. My recommendation would be two months if the maker of the motion is open to that.7:05 PMYes, I think going back to committee, I will make sure I pay attention in that conversation. That could behelpful too. Thank you. Shelf thank you. Is that acceptable?7:06 PMYes, agreeable.We have a motion and second. elaine, will you do a roll call, please?Yes, chair. this is the approval of the consent agenda. 6. 2-6. 13, deferring item 6. 1. [roll call] member jain is abstaining on item 6. 12.[roll call] I would like to note for the record that member chavez is recusing from item 6. 2 and 6. 4. [roll call] motion passed, chair. Thank you.7:07 PMThank you.Moving on to the regular agenda. The first item on the regular agenda is item 7. 1. 7. 1. Action item - adopt a labor peace agreement (lpa) policy, as set forth in attachment a of the staff report, for hospitalityoperations on vta transit-oriented development (tod) sites as an addition to the existing vta transit-oriented development policy (tod) dated November 22, 2019. This item will be presented by ron golum.7:08 PMThank you, Mr. Chair. also note that I have the manager available for questions after the presentation. I will make a brief verbal presentation and I will be happy to answer questions. This item first was made as a referral from the administration of finance committee staff from October of last year. The basic concept for this hospitality labor piece agreement is that these types of contracts help -- on projects. I would like tomention in the policy what a peace agreement is. It refers to a binding and enforceable agreement that seeks from hospitality workers in a project that would be locate and for members in changing for valuableconsideration not including ticketing or any other operation at the project. The background for this and thisis a court case, san francisco redevelopment agency versus marriott where agencies have an interest in a project and creates the legal nexus for doing this type of an agreement. For vta and this includeshospitality, we negotiate for participation of projects to receive more proceeds. This is a labor agreement to reduce impacts and even if potentially there are some additional costs. I will also note as the hospitality sector is one that is known for low wages for work, overworked and also in terms of the pandemic is one of the most impacted sectors and service workers impacted most during the pandemic. Bart adopted a similarpolicy this past January 2021. We also asked a consultant to do a survey and they interviewed five other agencies that have these policies and also interviewed those with data and in santa clara county union andnon-union to have this discussion. To be clear, what the consultant did was not an exhaustive market of these analysis but more of a survey with experience with this and also trying to understand how this might affect the economics. To summarize the key findings, every project that received concessions from local agencies which were the basis for adopting the labor peace requirement. And there are many variables of the feasibility of projects besides labor cost. When they looked at the data, union nd non-union hotels, they found that union hotels have an 8% higher labor cost and 5% lower for the unit hotels. Thatdifference reflects the fact that as you would expect that when there are hard labor costs that there are other adjustments to make and at this time there is in terms of hospitality and with the various functions as well as the services being offered. I will add and I think you will understand that even with the higher percent labor cost that the people that have those jobs still struggle to live in our region which is the most expensive places to live in u. S. And even international. The real impacts of these policies follow number ofvariables. I will also share with the board that I had the opportunity to speak recently with the laboragreement in santa clara and their experience was also that for hiring hotels that this kind of operation is not as big an impact by the nature of the higher margins in operation and certainly for the developing ofsanta clara projects. Based on that review, the policy that the board of directors offered was a starting point for what it might look like. We reported that to the administration of finance committee. What you have in the packet is that policy along with the vision based on this session passed by the administration offinance committee. Just to outline, this adopted of policy would require when we advertise with rfp for projects, it is stated that with requirements that the developers rom the response agree to laboragreement policy and indicate their agreement in writing at the time they submit and before the vta enters into an agreement, we ould require to provide sufficient proof that they have entered into this agreement.This policy would not apply for existing policies unless those agreements came back to the board for amendment. The policies would require operations that have 10 or more full-time equivalence. What thatnumber corresponds to when you look at extended stay type hotels that are typically smaller and less services, those typically fall under that threshold. Finally, there would be an exception in the policy thatwith this sort of policy would create a lack of feasibility for other projects that vta could retain and a third party expert 3 to study to inform the board's consideration. Staff's understanding of this is that in the event that prior to offering an rfp or rfq, staff felt it was the consideration that staff could issue the studyand find for the board consideration and the other consideration is for an rfp and not get as response for a tudy and for the policy. The board authorized the issue unions of an rfq for the downtown walk and that would include the requirement for a labor peace agreement for the adopted policy. The final item is thepolicy would be reviewed. Finally, we received a less than recommendation from the union from their council or a slight change in the language and this was reviewed by vta council and that is in section two,paragraph c 4 and the paragraph that talks about these exceptions. When we hear of the exceptions requiring the hotel to be feasible, instead we would change the language that it would negatively affect vta's proprietary interest and bring the language more in alignment. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:17 PMThank you. we'll now take public comments. Public speaker: making sure the unions are engaged. Because I guarantee you that those situations, they are not pocketing this but the unions do it across the board a better job than putting that money into the workers who live in our community. I wanted to point that out.# hank you for your hard work. Public speaker: blair beakman. Thank you for the words from the previous speaker. This item is a bit depressing and miserable and i'm sad that it's happened. The presenter try to mention his ideas and the domestic workers union they are trying to develop right now. The care workers, the domestic care workers, they couldn't even unionize and they are just starting to look at their rights.Service workers sound somewhat similar and trying to aid the learning practices they go through. I don't know what to say. I hope this is a short-term thing and we can see a better future. Thanks.7:19 PMWe will know close public comment for this item. Director chavez?Yes, I would like to move the item with one change, on package page 2, 7. 1a, under 2b, there is a sentence that reads prior to execution of ground lease where a vta dot project that includes the hospitality operation, developers would be required o provide sufficient evidence. I want to change this for clarity to say prior to final board action I think that's what's intended ron because of the execution of the boardanyway. As part of staff recommendation to the board, that those provisions are included or acknowledged in the staff report before any final actions taken on the execution of the lease.7:20 PMIf I May note that at least 3 to date, our practice on the tod projects is that after the board authorizes the negotiations and we go back to the developer and work through a number of issues to get to point ofunderstanding of what he project is going to be, that's at that point we bring it back to the board of directors for approval of the terms and we ask the board to authorization the resolution and the ptions onthe agreement and once they are satisfied, they are executed. The reason we set that up is at the time it's negotiated, the deal parameters, there is still the amount of work that could be up to two years in terms ofgoing through final planning and through the planning entitlements and financing and negotiate the specific language in the agreement and this document. Typically when that board provides that, they agreeto the terms in detail and language an verifying that the conditions of been met in the legal agreement.That's up to staff. I think to clarify, I hear your motion that we would need to come back to the board to have an additional time, a couple years later to tie this to that ground institution to receive additional approval from the board.7:22 PMThat would be my intent. you know what, ron, thank you for rea reminding me of that timeline if there is significant deviation from the ena, i'm thinking out loud, but that's a big girth for staff. Tell me how we areaccomplishing the goal that we are requesting?When you steer the boa# -- consider the board's approval for the options based on the contract but a contract on the many conditions with planning and financing and before the ground ease. If it's the intentof the board to understand the nature of this agreement, we can go back to the board on the terms of the agreement prior to the execution before board action. Now, if it's the board's desire to take on that actionitem, we can also do that, but keep in mind that the prior lease agreement is binding and because it's a binding contract if we are going to change hat agreement, we have to go back to negotiate that with thedeveloper. If that makes sense.7:23 PMSo ron, it's a binding agreement based on both parties believing that in good faith we've reached an agreement after the fact, right?Right. when the board authorizes the general manager to sign the lease option options, they will approve and - they will make the payments on the economic terms that we agree to in terms of participation and so on. The other side of this is when the developer sets the conditions identified and perform the steps for approval and everything else identified, it obligates us to execute the ground. That's the nature of thecontract.7:24 PMI think then what i'm asking is prior to execution that it does come back to the board for verification and it shouldn't just be on this subject, it should be on the verification that all the standards have been met, all of the policies because that's our housing policy potential, any number of policy. I think frankly it makes sense to do that even from a sunshine perspective for the public. So, yeah, if we can incorporate that, that would be helpful an that would be my motion. Thank you, ron. Thank you for the presentation. That was very helpful.7:25 PMI will second that motion, chair.Okay, it's been moved and seconded.I would like to thank you ron for that and especially around the impact of feasibility development and change from feasibility from proprietary which is probably more objective. I'm happy to support this.7:26 PMThank you. I don't see other hands raised. We are ready for a vote.I want to clarify that it includes the changes that ron statedYes, staff's recommendation including the presentation.[roll call] motion passes unanimously. Thank you.Thank you. next item. 7. 2. Action item - approve the updated santa clara valley transportation authority(vta) public transportation agency safety plan (ptasp). The ptasp documents vta's processes and activitiesrelated to the implementation of a safety management system (sms), in compliance with federal and state regulations. Governance and audit (g&a) committee7:27 PMAngelique, chief of safety and security will provide the presentation along with susan.Thank you. good evening chair and honorable board. I will not be providing the presentation, but susan will and we want to give her the opportunity to give this presentation because it's been hours and hours of work for several months and making sure this reflected the practices at vta and any gaps were addressed.With that, I will turn it over to susan.7:28 PMCan I interrupt real quickly. I want to note that angelique will be leaving vta soon. She has a great opportunity with one of the cities in santa clara county. I just want to note all of her hard work with vta over the last few years on system safety and security. Angelique has been great and she's got a great team and you will meet susan tonight. I would like to thank her for all her years of service with vta andcongratulate her on her new opportunity. You can ask her what it is.7:29 PMThank you. i'm happy to share. It's with the city of campbell as the city manager. With that, I will hand it over to susan.Good evening honorable board and chair. My name is susan with safety and security. Under federal law, vta is required to ensure the safety plan under he safety management system. Every year, vta is also required to review ptasp, and I would like to provide a quick review and why it's an open document and open to modification as needed. It includes a strong safety policy statement, procedures o manage risks, mechanisms to test whether those procedures are working and continue promotion of these procedures.The first pilar is clearly reflected and there you will find the policy statement and safety is a core value and vta is committed to developing and maintaining and constantly improving to ensure that policies and procedures throughout the agency facilitate the management of safety risk. The second pilar is reflected inthe programs included in our ptasp to help our employees identify and manage and conditions that can cause injury, illness or death, damage to loss of facilities, equipment, vehicles or infrastructure or damage to the environment. In fact all vta employees and contractors have a responsibility to identify and report any hazards encountered during the course of their duties. The third pilar is reflect in the proceduresoutline that are used to test whether our approach to manage risk is working. That includes a systemic collection of data, development of data, rules compliance and facilities and equipment inspection,maintenance and audits and inspections, event investigations and drug and alcohol testing. The last section is safety and promotion and working to keep them safe in the environment. How does ptasp fit in the grand scheme of things and that is aimed to keeping systems and procedures. What plans andprocedures do you hope to find under the roof. An injury and illness program and that ptasp requires just that. In fact our -- helps keep employees healthy and safe. We have our safety invest # vest policy andwhether they are work ageing as intended or whether upgrades are needed. The plan racks every piece of vta equipment and tells vta when it needs to be replaced or repaired. The vta plan provides the map ofasking questions like how do we approve the operations and who is going to pay the bills. And this helps us to find our ways during emergencies, how to check the health after a crisis is over and how to bring the house back online once it is safe to do so. That criteria is related to engineering and design and these design criterias make sure what complies with regulations and keeps the system operating efficiently.Finally our security and safety plan is like a fence around the perimeter. Its goal to keep our facilities, system and employees secure and protected from unwanted intrusions. That's how the p tasp interactions with the plans and there are four principles in the policy that guide these and they are shown at the bottom of the slide. But it's the p tasp rfq management procedures that require the staff to engage inthese steps rom the beginning to end and ensure the ideas are properly vetted, plans are reviewe reviewed by the right stakeholders and projects are built in a manner that does not interfere with but instead --enhances the operations of the system. This can identify potential conflicts from hazarded and from regulatory agencies to build next to our system across our tracks. Vta entering in operations andmaintenance agreements with the city to ensure signals are developed properly and operating so to not interfere with operations and work with city to ensure safety protections now that we understand thecomponents of the ptasp. Let's talk about the development. In June of 2020, the board approved the ptasp and July of 2020 complied with federal regulations. It was internally reviewed in 2020 between Octoberand December no changes or updates were made. And in to 2021, updates were needed. The next steps is for vta to submit the plan. Let's talk about your approval. Among other things, this includes endorsement from general manager, updated organizational chart, updated compliance monitoring programs, light rail and technical training, updated organizational chart so they are clear on the role of responsibilities. And the update of the monitoring program, hazardous materials program and environmental health and safety program. Independently these programs are essential to the he is of the organization and preventscomplacency complacency. And these have been reviewed by our relevant divisions and our agency andsafety board and committee. We are now asking that the board approve as well. With that, i'm happy toentertain questions.7:38 PMThank you angelique. I enjoyed working with angelique in san jose and i'm going to miss you. I know our paths will cross again. I want to say ow much I enjoy working with you. We will now take public comment.7:39 PMThank you, chair. . We have one public speaker. Blair beakman, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public saker: hi, blair beakman, we are working on employees rights in san jose. It goes against that and we are trying to build that in time. It hurts a bit. That to the words of council member supervisorchavez and she May be able to talk about this subject in the future. The atu had a lot to do with this project and I don't think we talk about them enough during public meetings. I was trying to before the incidents of last May as a camaraderie effort. I hope we can bring that back and create a sense ofcamaraderie and how much the atu and the system. Public speaker: anne marie. I heard it was brought by the he is committee and it was approved and I wanted to know because I don't recall this. Thank you.7:40 PMClerk: thank you. that concludes public comment.Thank you. i'm bringing it back to the board. Director hendricks?Yes, I wanted to highlight to the board that i'm the new chair and the spo did review this in January and had a pretty extensive discussion of the topic. When you are ready for the motion, I will go ahead and do that and I want to say thank you for the report and as me taking over as a chair,7:41 PMI move that the valley transportation authority approve the updated safety plan.Second.Director chavez?Thank you and suzanne thank you so much for the report. I had a question. Can you talk about the role ofthe bargain units play in the development of the plan?7:42 PMI can take that question, member chavez. The requirements of the fta are very specific ith regard to theptaps and it's required and we regulate as a committee as another platform for it to be heard and it goes to the board for approval. We engaged in the original creation of the ptasp out of the meeting and workedwith the various divisions to create it along the way. As we update and reach out to various divisions, obviously we don't reach all 2000 employees but it is discussed with the various issues they are part it and sure they reflect the current practices at vta.7:43 PMSo one recommendation I would make long-term is that I do think it's really important and as we are going through our cultural change in program and processes that we look at all the processes we have and how we are engaging the workforce and their argaining units and sometimes it's the same and other times it's ot and it's important for the public to know that we are really doing a better job with our work and file employees. Also angela, it is a huge loss for us and a gain for campbell. We'll have to get back at them for stealing you but they are lucky to have you. Best of luck.I don't see other hands raised. We have a motion and second.7:44 PMChair, I want to say something. 3Okay, I see director constantine.Thank you, I will take this opportunity to congratulate angelique as well. I was the outgoing chair and she was happy when was chair. Just kidding about that. I know angelique you are doing what's best for youand your family. You will be sorely missed and I want to thank you for when I was chair and how you held my hand and made sure that I did everything right. I really appreciate it. Good luck to you and you will bemissed.Thank you.7:45 PM> I don't see other hands raise,Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] # 7. 3. Information item - receive a presentation from dina el-tawansy, caltrans district iv director. (verbal report) # I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. I'm the directorresponsibility for the bay area and I have been serving in this position for less than a year. While i'm elatively new to the position, i'm not new to santa clara county. I have served on projects in santa clara county and also between vta and district 4. So you can say that santa clara has a very special place in myheart. I want to talk about the cal trans foundational parentheses + and cal trans funding sources and projects and clean california program. As you are all aware that the project has made a major shift with how we do our work with a system that we are entrusted to manage. The management plan that we reached in 2020 and the 2020 action plan for infrastructure that has put a tremendous emphasis on climate resiliency and equity. Climate resiliency is a main focus as you have seen the drought, the fires and the flood level and tlooking at greenhouse gas emissions and supporting transit and rail and equity projects. And the role that our transportation decisions have played in this proportionally impacting ommunities of colors in particular. We are looking at alleyways for how to address equity in the future and the community we serve in the bay area, but also by ensuring early and continuous engagement on the public particularly underserved communities and the regional and transportation stakeholders. It's always been our number one priority is safety and trying to embrace the federal safe system approach that aims to eliminate serious injuries for all users and safe vehicles and safe speeds nd road sides and finally crash response. We are also doubling down on what seems to be working as far as safety especially on ourconstruction and main zone. You know, these three principles are the foundational principles that are guiding our vision. And we talked about projects and how to allene your projects in the department and this would be helpful for not only the climate action goal and also as you can see the position the state istaking is very much aligned with the federal as well.7:50 PMI would like to go over the slides. The primary vehicle for preservation and emergency work. This is a four year cycle. And this shows the level of investment that is to our 2020 shop which is our current shop cycle.# $16 billion statewide. This is a four year cycle and currently working on the draft 2022 shop. This map shows the on going projects and investments. These are in addition to the current cycle. You can see several projects and some of them in planning and design and environmental phase or construction phase.There is 37 projects about half a billion dollars in our job cycle. Some of the projects are about $75 million and also state route 17 safety which is 85 million. On top of the shop, there is also other source of fundingthat we are very grateful for and especially your local tax that are helping to improve on the system. What you are seeing is the map to show these investments and regional funds, and prop 1b and there are projects in santa clara county that are about $800 million. Some of these key projects through measure funds I will talk about in a minute. State routes and another project and what you are looking at is the distribution of maps. In santa clara county, 40 projects about $115 million from sb 1 funds have been allocated and what I referenced earlier when I was talking about measure funding such as 101, and 237 and 10 and turnbull. As we all know that president biden has signed a $1. 3 trillion transportation plan.This is $284 billion for transportation, water $55 billion, and you are looking at some of these items related to water, and this is a huge investment and delivery is paramount. As you know, as you know we have put together an implementation team and are led by policy leaders and subject matter experts. These include safety, climate reduction and adaptation and active transportation, reimagining highway investments, just to name a few. Also the website has a lot of information and really very transparent about ow they aregoing about the process. Another exciting investment for the california initiative, this is a $1. 1 billion transformative initiative. For this area. So I want to expand a little bit on these programs because there is a lot of turn the for santa clara county for thachl it includes several components that you are actually working on. One of them is to hire locally. We have had a few hiring events and the idea to improve theretention and makes it very challenging to retain new hires. We have had one in oakland and san jose to recruit some maintenance crew workers. Another component of that is the highway program, we areexpanding on that and you May have heard in the news that there is also an offering of $250 per up to 2,000 per year. Another area is the man's agreements with the leftocal cities and counties. There has always been interest with the local cities and counties for maintaining the right-of-ways and getting reimbursed for that. And this is under the clean bill 2020. We are also providing some free dump days.They are entirely set up y cal trans and other cities as they offer their own predump days nd they manage these activities. Finally the volunteer to litter pick up day around santa clara county and we are happy to do those events. We are also working with santa clara zero emissions program. Another one is the investments component. That is the local program and that program is the whole purpose which is to reallytry and improve the local streets, parks, centers and public spaces. It's a saftatewide program and match with local dollars and match from 0 to 50%. Another part of that program also is to enhance theinfrastructure component and these are projects that are actually happening on the state system. So, we are really looking for opportunities to beautify public spaces within our right-of-way. Some of these projects are funded through cal trans but also any local jurisdiction that have ideas or would like fundingwithin these projects within our right-of-way and definitely open to that and would like to talk with you on it. Courage we have in santa clara three proposed projects and art installation in san jose and also in san jose we have the havana park and we have improvements between 280 in san jose also. There is also some additional ct enhancement projects of this program, and a very minor ct improvement. We have 21 projects that are in the direct in santa clara county. We have five proposed charges.8:00 PMOn the man's fronts, we continue to have many challenges. On campments and tree removal is an on going problem in our region. What we are trying to do with these efforts is the partnership with some of our local partners in giving housing to people who are experiencing homelessness and also providing the services they need, social services. This is essential for us and rely heavily on our partners as we don't get funding for housing and people experiencing homelessness. And also try to employ some people xperiencing homelessness and persons needing a second chance. We helped with many events that had actually helps these persons pply for jobs. And we have the navigation centers within our right-of-way and hopefully we can provide the right-of-way nd some of the local charity can provide some of the services and help establish some communities there. I just want to do a quick run of numbers to show thank you level had unsheltered clean ups. Ve - this slideshows our investment in santa clara county over the past five years. You see the trend. It's constantly going up. You can see the litter effort is getting more extensive. Finally this slide is showing you the amount of money spent for this year. I'm going to stop here.There is a lot that's been going on this year and a lot of exciting things happening. I open to any of your questions.8:03 PMThank you, deanna. we will now take public cmments.Do we have any speakers?Yes, it looks like we have one.Blare, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, thank you. These ideas sounded somewhat interesting. Thank you, cal trans has been doing some work and this is work of their labor.Thank you. It's a really important idea that in the next few years the planning ideas are clear and open with the public nd the whole process is open and clear. We May have natural disaster worries to cnsider, i'm not sure, but to be sure I think to be open with ourselves as we can would be good for public health and safety. It's good practice overall thank you very much for your time. . Good work. Thank you.8:04 PMClerk: that concludes public comment.All right. we'll go to the board. Director chavez?Thank you and deanna, thank you for being with us. I was wondering what the process is for getting land available for housing?Thank you, director chavez. you know, we've done about a year ago when the governor really embarked on this effort. We've done a survey of all available on lots that are suitable for that purpose. We have the characteristics of the lots that would be qualified for such efforts. We try to be away from the bridge line and not under the structure. There is certain criteria that has to be met for the safety of folks that would be living in that space. If you see a arcel that you are interested in exploring, we definitely start theconversation, we can take a look at it and see if it qualifies or not. And then once that we agree on that, we basically get the lease of that lot area and we simplified that cost tremendously for people experiencing extreme homelessness. But we have to have a right-of-way to be able to do that and we reach anagreement with the city with what they want to establish there and they provide the community cabins or teeny homes if you will and services and we work with the city.8:06 PMThank you. and then, just a follow-up. This has more to do with just how clean ups work and I know you are getting pulled across all the freeways in the state or in our region to get this work done, but i'mwondering if you can give us feedback about how we could get more clean ups and what should our region do to help you help us get the freeways really tidy?Thank you, supervisor. I just want to go back to the previous question. I want to emphasize the housing we were talking about in the previous question is temporary housing. It's very important to be noted. But your question is definitely an excellent one and an area of focus in this area and we talked about the clean up efforts that are part of this. And a big part is hinging on the ability of the local jurisdictions to providehousing and also to provide social services for these folks. We are not able to provide that at the region.We don't have the capability or expertise to do that. We rely on our own partners to help s with that. For general clean up, we have priority. With the locations if it has a safety hazard, for example if they are very close to a recovery zone or close to the edge of the travel way, we do these clean ups almost immediately for the safety of the people that are experiencing homelessness or the drivers in those areas. If it's not a safety concern, then we also try to clear those areas as soon as we can. For other areas that areconsidered lower priorities and these are more addressed as we find housing options and this is for those folks as well. So that talks to the encampment part and generally there is another big area. And one of thethings that has been really holding us back is the staffing. We have had an issue with staffing and we also had a setback during covid that resulted in additional littering in the area. And we need to provide someincentives with some of our local partners to take on these in our right-of-ways because they maybe in a better position to hire and provide better salaries. These are some of the efforts. I hope i'm answering yourquestion.8:09 PMThat was very helpful. let me just wrap up with one question. I think we are all having a difficult time hiring right now, but i'm wondering if we have service models that we haven't about. One last question, and colleagues, thank you for indulging me on this. When you have companies cleaning up on a freeway after an accident, some of those companies, I know they seem to be a little bit more rigorous in making sure they are picking up everything that was there like bumpers or tires and broken glass and some are less vigorous. I'm wondering if in order to be on freeways if they are contracting with you or to do those clean ups if those contracts are primarily with local entities?8:10 PMI honestly do not know the answer to that question. I know that chp takes control of the incidents and they are directing a lot of the work that's happening there. I need to check with our maintenance staff if we go through a certain approved list of folks that are doing those clean ups or not. I don't have that answer off the top of my head.8:11 PMThe reason I was asking is one requirement that we made many years ago in san jose and something I want to check on again is for folks in franchise agreement in san jose because we saw them not do a very good job of the clean up is we changed our requirement. At least that was my recollection. I'm wondering if we can take a look at what our contractual requirements are with franchising also in a way that our staff and fire department or chp to give feedback if the provider isn't doing the kind of clean up we expect. I think being out there when traffic is already stopped and making that clean up is probably the most effective way to do it. That's probably what's driving my question, but I will look forward to learning more from you at a later time as you do the additional probing, thank you.8:12 PMThank you and that's an excellent point to consider.Director hendricks?Thank you. dina, there is a lot of information in your summary and a lot going on. I want to go back to slide four. You had in your slide that showed miles. I'm not proud that santa clara county has the highest percentage, 1717 miles. And we are the largest number of lane miles in 4, having so many lane miles in our county, does that create any unique opportunities or unique challenges for you in d 4 to deal with all the lanes in our county? Does that make sense?8:13 PMIt does, and thank you very much director, for asking that. The number of lanes, of course indicates as we look at our number of lanes and by the number of elements that are out there. So definitely that wouldwarrant a high number of elements and higher number of miles to maintain. What drives a lot of our investments in the area is what we call our ten year plan and our ten year plan takes over all the assets in our department and looks at which are in poor and fair and good condition. Based on that, we set our performance measures for these assets. That drives among the projects that are going to each county and depending on the assets of that are in poor condition and we are trying to bring them nto fair conditionand that is how we decide on these investments. Definitely more miles and more to take care of.8:14 PMOkay, thank you. this is all very interesting. I can go on for hours but i'm not going to. Thank you very much.Thank you. director paul.Hi, den a.Hello. i'm wondering about the volunteer litter pick up day in one of your slides. Is this multiple days, a set day during the year or is that on a request basis?We try to get them when we have enough volunteers and those that request tis. Our goal is to have as many of them as possible and as many of them as our maintenance resources allow us to have. So we have had multiples of these, and a few that are scheduled. If you are interested in the ones that are scheduled, i'm happy to share that with you as well. Director, if you would like to schedule one in your aea, we have some groups that are interested in joining us in this area, we would be happy too do that.8:15 PMGreat. who do I get in contact with?I don't have the contact here but you have my contact information and please send me an email.Great and for the training of volunteers, is that a separate session or are the volunteers expected already to have that kind of expertise?8:16 PMWe usually hold a training session before we start the clean up. So basically our staff talks about what to handle and what to look ut for. Usually that happens at the beginning of every clean up session and if there is anything that is dangerous to handle, our staff will come and handle that. Our maintenance staff is part of that clean up.Okay. and finally with regard to maintenance on an on going basis and a particular area was identified for whatever reason, really proton -- prone to litter. Could we contact for this?8:17 PMWe have a customer service request atabase and you can request on a certain location. What that does and this is excellent for me to track that our staff are actually responding to these requests and scheduling hese clean ups. That's one way of doing this is submitsing through our service request in the system and I can also provide the data for doing that. And our maintenance taff guiding as well. We have been trying to increase our debris in the bay area and you will be able to get more people on board.8:18 PMI'm sure we would love to work with you and the other agencies and i'm sure it's true for many jurisdictions throughout the county. Thank you for getting the information and channel of communication to you.I will provide that information.Great. thank you so much.Director liccardo?Thank you. director, I really appreciate your ability to come to talk with us. I know since I have been in office, we have had conversations with multiple directors and around staffing for maintenance, crews and clean up affecting this county, and I know that we have been working with your team. You mentioned one in the program that you had. As you know we have been hiring unhoused residents down hrough street teams and goodwill to help clean our city and in the meantime we are trying for find housing and services and a paycheck. I want to know to what extent has cal trans had in hiring the people that we bring to you and how is it going with those maintain crews?8:19 PMWe have ad mass hiring events. And we had about 400 people that showed up. We ade 400 conditional job offers. As they go through the process, many of them unfortunately fail the drug test and the test theyneed to pass and come on board. The result is initially lower than what we are going to get. But we have been successful for hiring inmates and prison programs are part of the state. We were able to offer and don't quote me on the number, I think it was about 25 inmates that were up for release and hadconditional job offers with us. There is a lot of job opportunities like that.8:20 PMDirector, if I could, I really want to focus on santa clara county because the repeated challenge we've had and I have gone to many of your predecessors who repeatedly say why are our freeways look worse than most in the areas and i'm told that you have so many vacancies. Can you speak to the vacancies?8:21 PMYes, one of the things in santa clara county was to have a hiring event and as you mentioned the highcost-of-living and being able to recruit and that we can have better retention in that way. I'm trying to pull up the numbers as we are speaking right now to take a look at what the outcome of the that event was.Yeah, I would be interested in knowing how many vacancies you have left in your crews and can we have cal trans to be performing standard man's service -- maintenance service and how soon because it is verya great disparity with the streets.8:22 PMSure, I can provide you more information on that and I can assure you, director that we are working on filling those positions as much as we can and we are all working in tandem.Okay. perhaps can we have an off lean conversations so you can provide additional information to us, the city, to me to help us understand what is the statute yours of the # -- status of the vacancy vacancy particularly in santa clara county about our road maintenance and freeways?Certainly.Thank you for that. can you remind me what the shop program is for?8:23 PMIt's for the highways and the cleaning systems we have.When we sit on board, we get then skin and oakland base sometimes neglects santa clara county and that's often the perception. Let me share the concern I have. Two directors ago I ontacted them and stated that screecanta clara county as not getting enough clean up and per mile basis, santa clara was getting less. And we have the largest population in the district for regions among the county. We have more than a quarter of the population. As we look at the encampment clean ups in continue # # contra costa county and alameda county. If you look at the last slide for maintenance, again the ratio for santa clara county is substantially less than our population as well as per mile share. So why is it that santa clara county is getting consistently less than other counties in the district?8:24 PMIf you look at the slide that shows, a lot of investments with regard to a previous member that asked this question, is really guided by what is in our asset management plan and a lot are in the needs and certain areas and definitely the maintenance that is something that is really beg in santa clara county. I know that we have been challenged.8:26 PMHere is encampments that show the clean up and the general maintenance an clean up. I appreciate this is a challenge throughout the district, but this has been a repeated concern. I guess the prior director we had his conversation and they changed the allocation I was told to give us a more proportion to lane miles. This is in the online slide. In any event, I ran the numbers and I looked at the ones that you have posted online, and it's clearly less and shown by population with the lane miles. I was wondering if this was myanecdotal observation but seems to be reconfirmed by the dollars and certainly by the staffing, and I want to let you know we are very concerned because my residents are very concerned and they are frustrated and they expect the city is going out there to clean up and we don't have the authority to clean up and we are doing with all we can to provide you with employees in the workforce and would love to help you to do more of that but we need to know that cal trans is in support of santa clara county and san jose.8:28 PMAbsolutely. we are definitely all in and as i'm happy to provide you more information on the concentrated efforts in santa clara county. I appreciate your comments and definitely I will look at this proportionalfunding issue that you just mentioned and I May have another answer for you on that.If it helps, because I know there was a challenge in finding the slides. In the slides that are attached to the agenda item, I believe it is the 17th page that shows, for example, last year, 2021, a $31 million toexpenditure to $5. 7 million in santa clara county for litter that was ust one example. But certainly in other years as well. Anyway, thank you very much.8:29 PMThank you.Director chavez?On this slide that you are showing, is the scl, is that us?Yes.> thank you. I guess I would just say to mayor liccardo, i'm glad you raised that because when you look at the percentage, you are right. Thank you for raising that. I just wanted to ask one other question, and again, this May be something you want to respond to at a later time. I'm trying to understand if there areresources and assets that can help protect the clean ups that happen. As an example, we are short a number of sound walls and which I think mean that we have on going access issues. So even when clean ups happen, that we then have access issues with people getting in places that are unsafe for them. And that really create dangerous conditions. Is that, is that something that you also find?8:30 PMIt is really a challenge to keep an area cleaned up once it's been cleaned up. If you go into an area in the next week or few days, it starts right away with people experiencing homelessness and with a lot ofgarbage. There are a few things we are experimenting with in this area. One of them is in certain areas where it's repeatedly being with trash, for example, we are putting up projects such as rod iron to areas that have been cleaned up and opefully will keep a lot of litter from coming back to these areas. That is not something we plan to do to the whole district because that is very expensive and not sustainable. But one of the issues we are ooking into is in california putting some artwork that will give people this pride for this area. And for example, put some artwork on community park or something to that. Usually people tend to keep it in a clean condition and it really helps preserve the look of the area. This is one of the things that were really encouraging in california initiative. We are trying to find some of these ourselves as I mentioned but there is also opportunity for local cities if they have any art projects or any community projects that they would like to build in our right-of-way we are happy to partner with them on that andissuing permits and we would be happy to work with them on the problem, but it is a challenge.8:32 PMCarolyn?Sorry.When we are responding to some of the information that mayor liccardo asked for, the one also helped us is staff to help when we get the data is also how do you make that determination f asset review? Is it done and how much does it depend n the staff n your region and the area. Is it that we don't rank in this, I don'tsee our roads much better than other roads. I want to make sure that we wouldn't need as much. So if we can have an understanding with how you determine this and want to be sure a lack of staffing isn't being a lack of review as well. Thank you.8:33 PMWe can provide that information as wll.Director jain?8:34 PMYes, we had a percentage of miles and now 4. 8% of the budget before, and we have 31 projectscompared the alameda with 55 projects. Are these we are not applying for projects or how does this get distributed with even at 4%.The money that you are looking at here are again driven by our ten year plan and our ten year plan is based on the assessment. So, it changes every scycle. I will be happy to provide numbers. There was a time where santa clara had higher numbers than other counties and others with esser counties. It's driven manually by assets conditions and the need for projects, not just the population or how big of a county it is. So I think that's driving that goes into this consideration. And going back to carry carolyn's comments, I can provide you more information.8:35 PMThe allocation by county, not just of the shop, but more importantly the on going man's # maintenance dollars -- who makes that decision, is that the department secretary, who do we go to ensure that we have a more equitable distribution of resources around maintenance?8:36 PMI can assure you director that i'm going to look at that. I need to take a look at how that has been distributed in the past. There seems to be a lot of history that I have been missing here.I would appreciate that because my residents are furious particularly when they go to other cities and they don't have the same condition with other phras freeways. We'll take it to whoever it is to make the decision because we need to make the change. Can you tell me who makes the decision?We get the allocation in the district and we distribute that allocation within the district.Okay, if you are the decision maker maker, can we meet in the next week to understand why we don't see the numbers per capita basis?8:37 PMWe sure can.Thank you.Thank you very much for your presentation and answering all the questions.Thank you very much. thanks for having me. That was an informational item.Chair, this is director carrasco. I just wanted to hank the board members for their questions and especially mayor liccardo, of course. I share the same city and same residence and same concerns. Would like toknow will we have an update. Of course my residents are just as upset and we have been blasted on all the local channels regarding the same issues that have been brought up and I would like to also give a response to our residents.8:38 PMWe can work with dina, the cal trans district to make sure you want o have nother meetingf - or have some discussion once we give you information, we can do that.I guess hat i'm asking for, general manager, is that whatever the response is or the reallocation or the new formula that be brought back to the board and we have a formal update.8:39 PM> okay.Because i'm not sure what the allocation is, what you presented for this year?It's for this on going cycle and this year. I'm happy to provide information requested and I took a lot of note and after you have the information, if you need me to come back here and answer more questions, I can do that as well.Thank you. now we are onto item 7. 4. Information item - receive a report on pandemic-related service restoration. Transportation planning manager will provide the report.8:40 PMThank you, chair and directors, jay tiyrese. First is a snapshot -- on where we are with the bus and lightrail. As of last week, we have 856 operators out of 902. As a reminder, we have training classes every nine weeks, 20 classes were full until November and we talked about this a few months ago when I gave my last update where we saw a significant drop in this. Now the classes are about a half full. We lose about 18 operators or so every 19 weeks due to attrition, separation, promotions. That's where we are on the busside. The next slide is rail side, 96 and we have 132 positions. We have trained candidates per month and they come from the bus operator pool. At the end of the day, the bus and rail side come from hiring more us operators. Next on the guiding principles. This is a set of guiding parentheses -- parentheses --8:41 PMPrinciples since the pandemic with some level of service and capacity limitation with on boarding vehicles and worked on those issues by targeting service with the routes with the highest service and the weekendroutes and now they are all running the same daily service level. No. 4, we turned our attention to the fall 2021 school term this last fall and restored our school surface to meet that school demand. Then we turned our attention to a few new routes that we had planned to frontline workers and longstanding planning efforts in south county and route 568 started last october. The last priority that we justaccomplished was a restoration of the 15 minute network. If you look at the map, all the routes that are in red, those are all continuing every 15 minutes as they were in the prepandemic all day. So there is three future phasing and restoring the evening hours that will be next and some will end at 1030, and midnightthroughout the pandemic and those we'll extend the hours and we are finding more weekend services and some routes are now running now every 30. There are however three factors that are in flux right now thatmake it impossible to project when we'll get to those priorities, 7 and 8. First is a candidate pool. How many people are applying to vta. That said, it remains to be seen if that's a factor to related to omicronand just short lived. We don't know yet. Second is the supplemental paid sick leave coming. All of thatleave will be handed down to our employees and therefore we'll get less hours per operator from that state and there will be less service because of that and finally the loss of operators due to the vaccine mandate.All of those are significant and I know impacts at this time is impossible to project when we'll get to these last two phases but rest assured they are our priority. The next slide is the rail service restoration priority and we restored the light rail service in the early pandemic shutdown and restored the recent survey two summers ago. And then following the May accident, May 2021, after we had to shutdown service from last summer, we restored service that was completed last september. On the light rail side we have not restored the network. That's next and followed by the english hours of service. My next slide here there are two attachments in your packet and all the details that you ever want on what's left to restore on the attachment and showing everything that is left to restore on every route. Some routes are already at fullservice. That's that last remaining bit on the buses and rail side. My final slide is attachment b is a visual guide that we use in service planning. This shows all the trips in our system. So all 3800 trips in our step.Like eastern palo alto, so each dot is a trip and the solid dots are the trips that we have already restored and the hollow dots are trips we have already restored and gives you a sense of the quantity and services yet to be restored. With that, this concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.8:47 PMThank you, jay. now we'll take public comments. Do we have public speakers?Yes. public speaker: nd speaking on assaults on drivers this past year. Great work. And what is a felony arrest a lot also. It was a good stopgap measure. I hope we don't continue to work that way and we can consider other ideas. Openness and accountability really can help with our questions this time. Thank you.We have one more public speaker. John, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Good evening again john courtney. This is a tough time. I can imagine. I also want to point out to the board what the atu is doing to keep service on the road. It's really amazing, the patch work from the transit radio to dispatchers in the yards and the loss of service due to our operators and frontline worker mechanics getting covid. It's really incredible that we have any buses out there. I really appreciate you stepping up to the challenge and meeting some of the goals preand ost pandemic. You never expected this pandemic to be extended. And you also mentioned the fact that there will be folks missing due to the mandate to get vaccine.8:49 PMThat concludes public comment.I will now close public comment. Next item. Silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. (verbal report) #Thank you, Mr. Chair, board members. This is my update with where we are with the program.Very quickly on January 27th, fta had the meetings to see how we are progressing and going with the program. Our new cfo joined me and promised me she will be with me every month and answer the questions to the fta. The program is making it's ws way.8:51 PMWe are making progress and e are now on the second round and we know more work to do there to clean up the third parties. And this next project is going to be available in six months. I will come before you with the contracts. Regarding the second contract, you recall that we received the proposals and i'm happy to tell you tonight that we do have he valuation and it did work and we have the ranking of the proposals.Now this ob is back to us to do modifications, we are doing negotiations and we are expecting this month or half of next month, we will be able to conclude the discussions. If everything goes okay, I will be before you in April to ask you to award phase 1 to the design center by the contractor and what we are going to do to start the work. Part 3 z , we have this program where we want it to be. And we know we have the station contract. You are very familiar with this. This is March 22nd which I did this presentation before all of you. You can see the bar and the representation by the area. We are on target. We are making the progress the way we were planning. And I will keep you posted as we know. Thank you. I will answer any questions that you will ask?8:53 PMThank yu. we will now take public comments. Do we have any public speakers?I don't see any hands, chair.Great, thank you.Director peralez?Yeah, thank you very much. I appreciate the update and for my colleague's reference, there is a memo that I crafted in a letter of support from our city staff in san jose and I will just speak to that. And we haddiscussed this as a joint hearing at the city council where vta staff came to present. So this is in regards to public art on phase 2. And certainly as we know and as was included on phase 1, it's critical that we have a robust public art program in our phase 2 project. Phase 1, we had 480,000 as for the installation to the sation. It's important to know these stations are located in neighborhoods like little portugal, downtown, and the station in santa clara where there is a rich cultural art history and gives an opportunity to celebrate that at these public locations. In my discussion with staff, I was surprised as I learned that we do not have a percentage for public art on capital projects similar to what we have in our city in san jose where we have a 1% policy on capital improvement project. I also know an announce difference between grand funding and capital funding and the restrictions that are there, but regardless, I think we shouldhave a policy to help sustain the arts which is an important part of our art transit system that is through much of the diverse neighborhoods and communities in the county. So my request, staff has to returnbefore the end of the fiscal year to discuss two of the specific topics, one a comprehensive study for funding for public art and soft cost for bart hase 2 and develop a region percentage for a policy on capital projects and I wanted to hear staff's response on that. I appreciate the presentation again.8:56 PMI have actually had a couple of meetings and discussions with the team about public art and we are also doing in terms of - design and incorporating some design principles in. I think there is two aspects to your request. One will be specifically to the funding in definition plan for bart phase the, that we can do and thelarger policy about the percentage going out. We've had that in the past. Of the measure programs. Thereis sort of a larger amount, for example we said 1% on a $4 billion construction project is going to be $40 million. I'm not sure if they will send $40 million on a public art. I will do some research on that and come back with that as well. We'll have two aspects. I appreciate you bringing that to our attention so that we can get that classified much more quickly about how do we move that forward because we have other capital projects coming up as well.8:58 PMThank you and I was going to offer those as under their receivable to the dministration under item 8. 1. If those are taken now with in line with this informational item why I addressed this here an appreciate you coming back on this. Thank you.Thank you. director jain?I want to thank director peralez for bringing up this issue. I think it's important to have public art and I have been fighting the city of santa clara on public art. We don't have it yet but I certainly want santa clara station to have public art. I also wanted to just say that as we shorten this and starting to do the draft rfp for station design and station construction, that we look at different options for the santa clara station. It seems like if we look at the movement of people and bicycles, it's easier to get to the station platformsfrom the san jose side than the santa clara side. We should certainly look at how we can help people move throughout the station. Thank you.8:59 PMThank you.That's alderman hands I see raised. That's an information item only.-- we are moving onto item an update from sb 129 joint labor-management committee. (verbal report) I understand we'll have a presentation.Yes, good evening, board members. I'm the project manager in the technology department at vta and have been there for over 22 years. I'm also the vice-chair person for cseiu local 51. I'm here to provide you a report on behalf of the team. I wanted to start by saying that we meet weekly to support the sixpriorities that were identified in the expenditure plan presented to the board last october. And we are establishing out work plan and will provide a status update of the 1st quarter of deliverables based on theapplication at the board meeting and we received an update of the california workforce development board who is administering the $20 million state grant on January 31st, and we expect to receive our contractor review and signature within the next couple of weeks. We continue to ork with our county partners and center on many issues on many sides. One of them is planning the open house for the resiliency centerwhich that is a temporary name at this point and our team is also brainstorming to come up with a new name for the center which we will be unveiling that at the open house whenever we can have it. We had to postpone that due to the covid numbers and we are hoping as soon as the rates are better, we will bebetter able to have that open house and tell everyone the new name. And in the meantime, we are getting reports that our employees are very much utilizing the contracted clinicians and their alternative providers that we have available for mental health support and tools overall to deal with stress, and not only due totrauma that was caused by the shooting, but also obviously by the pandemic and other stressors and whatever else might be going on and we are pleased that employees and families are utilizing what we have provided up to this point. Lastly, I wanted to report to the organization that the rfp, the organizational culture and climate transformation rfp that was released December 22nd, we held a free proposal conference January 13th where we had about two dozen participants and we received some questions from some of the participants that if you could consider extending the deadline by two weeks which we granted based on the fact that it wasn't going to impact our timelin timeline. So we have extended that by two weeks and the bids are now due February 14, 2022. And we will be bringinghopefully a final board recommendation to the board in April still. That should not impact our timeline at all. That is all I have for tonight. I'm open for any questions.Thank you for that great presentation. Now we are going to take public comment. Do we have any members of the public who want to speak?I don't see any hands, chair.Okay. I will bring it back to the board. Do any of my colleagues have any questions?All rght. I don't see any hands up. Thank you for your presentation.Thank you for having me. it's another information item. I don't need a motion. The last item on the agenda. A presentation on operator safety. (verbal report) angelique and captain cordova.T's actually going to be both of us. I will start us off. Thank you.So, good evening, honorable chair, members of the board. In response to a request made by the stp committee in january, tonight we will provide the board with an overview with some of the steps that vta and the sheriff's office has taken to increase the safety of our bus operators and trains. And before I do that, lieutenant cardoza will be filling in and we are happy to have him. He's been in control for some timeand we are happy to have him with us as well. With that,Next slide, please. over the last couple years, vta has engaged in many efforts to increase operator safetyincluding barriers, collection of fares, policies and increasing private security. I want to go through each ofthose very quickly so you get a better picture of what i'm talking about. There will you will see the slide and photo of what this looks like on our buses. By last year, we successfully installed barriers on all of our buses in our main fleet. We have 50 bus that are 20 year old and looking to establish those and coming upwith clever ways to do hat because the age of the bus requires a different design. These were before the pandemic 3 and vta and the operators were already in discussion about what they should look like, and some members actually went to other agencies to see what they were using, brought back those ideaswith a concerted effort. That brought us to this point and were in the process of working on these barriers when covid landed. And working with experts to create this and handling situations before they escalate.Deescalation training. That training will roll out this year for all operators. If they are out on the road and the frontline, this training will be available to them as well. In terms of the fair collection policy, again an agreement with staff and looking to update the perpetrators with fares and this allows them how to decide how to manage a customer who cannot pay the fare to potentially avoid getting into disputes withcustomers because it allows the operators to pull back and notify the officer if the customer is getting unruly. There is an opportunity for groups to meet and discuss safety issues including ssues around operator assaults and officers provide crime stats and basically a break down of the number of assaults from the preceding month. The sheriff's office gives updates on how many of those instances officers arepursuing prosecution and where it is with the d. A. 's office and exploring how to mprove operator safety and this is a meeting that the permanent barriers actually first started being discussed.Then private security and hot spots and they move throughout agency and reports on assaults. If we get the report through the joint safety committee meetings or sometimes directly from the union to our captain about a number of stints happening in a particular location, then we start to focus on that locationuntil things settle down and we see some change. So, with that, I will turn to captain cardoza. He's going to address how operator safety is handle from a law enforcement side.From the sheriff's office and the control side what we do is we put on calls to service. We respond to all the calls and we get there quickly and prevent something from happening and improving the response system.We continue to work with operators to improve reporting of all incidents. The obvious place that it takesplace is balancing and investigating the crime. E take it a step further and retain control and track vta yards, but operators and break area and the traffic center, departments that continue to check in with theoperator, raising awareness and also looking to improve that and what we can do to make it safe for everybody. We document all incidents including events and it does happen, but there are times the bus operators and light rail drivers and operators do not want to be victims of crime. We document those issues. We have direct communication with specific attorneys at the da's office and work with that and ensuring that they are handled. The investigation to date with the tro, that's a little bit more in every chance with -- where there is a shooting. If you don't get the internal investigation, e deal with thebehavioral analysis about the early techniques and identify and mitigate the work of that -- some of these May not result in full blown criminal vehicles. We look at it and assess it. If it's not a criminal event, weturn it to other departments and very brief and trying to remember them. We successfully investigate itand have been granted by the courts temporary restraining in some of these cases and in these types of meetings a few months back, on a bus from chaboya and so we provide feedback and crime stats and provide information and mitigate that.The goal for 2022, the first point of security. That is n the worked and we sent a graph to tsa and trained analysis and final approval. We have a traffic unit and documenting and investigating bus and crashes as well. The operator -- that's what we look at trends and do an analysis on all fronts and on on an annual basis and look at the partner and see with a we can do to mitigate this. Anecdotally, there is no specific barrier on the transit system. There is no certain type of stuff that -- over one or another. It's pretty much across the board. Different location, different types and different bus lanes. Which is good. But in any event, we continue to ssess that and update it and -- that concludes my presentation.Thank you. now we'll take public comment.Thank you, chair. it looks like we have two members. Eugene, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: this is eugene from silicon valley transit. I sent e-mails. My first concern is that san francisco muni and even bart have signage by the operators or front door hat states assault on any vtaemployee will result in prosecution or imprisonment. Vta does not have these signs on board their buses.What can you do to have these signs. 23 operators assaulted just last month in the last report and that's too many. Also, our officers that ride in the buses to keep everybody safe. I will like to ask the captain to answer that question, please. Thank you.> our next speaker is john. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: good evening,once again, john courtney. I wanted to thank eugene for his comments and I completely agree. There is a correlation to ridership and when the ridership feels safe when they see the operator protected they feelsafe and that will improve ridership. We have had a pretty successful campaign over the last years in helping the operators to prosecute when they have been assaulted. That's been very successful. But what Ithink there is a complete disconnect between that initiative and vta's policies. I think that's where we can make a goal in this year to try to put the politiescy with vta and the sheriff's report because they are just allowed to get back on the bus and that's not good.That will be all the public comment.I will now close public comment. Now to hear from my colleagues. A hand raised, director chavez.Thank you and thank you for the report. I wonder if you could respond, one, I would like to have responses both to eugene but also to john courtney's comments and then I have a question.So, thank you, member chavez. I have not seen the email from eugene bradley, but I will take a look at what commenting might have been regarding signage on buses. I'm sorry, I didn't quite catch Mr. Courtney's comment about vta policy. If I can get some clarity around that so we can --Through the chair, can I do a follow-up with Mr. Courtney?Yes.Thank you. this was an opportunity for know get back on the mic to say we are going miss you angelique.But I appreciate the opportunity to clarify my concerns. In a lot of cases, we do prosecute, we do our duediligence to make sure the action against the operator is prosecuted and dealt with. But the person, the perpetrator is more times than not allowed back on vta property and the buses. Time nd time again, ourpassengers see this and I don't think the policies of vta support what we are trying to do with safety and security as it pertains to the operator. That was my point. I would like to take a deeper dive into some ofthese policies to protect the operator if that makes sense.Thank you. I think what you referred to was sustain them for a period of time?Yes, sometimes following through with the prosecution is not enough. I'm so glad with the person who made those threats publicly, and the course that vta took, but our operators are seeing a double standard and vta in full force and effect went after that gentleman and that's what our operators are dealing with on an on a daily basis. We have come a long way with our prosecutions and would like to make it safer with a deeper dive.Thank you, john, for that clarification. I think I get what you are saying. So it is just regular practice on the law enforcement side. There May not be anything called out in our procedures on the vta side, but we can take a look at confirm. It would just be saying, you know where appropriate work with the sheriff's office to prosecute. I know we have the violence free workplace policy that does require all of these parties that are looking together to work together and maybe it doesn't expressly call out that particular step to take a look to see that it does.Thank you, angelique.Uh-huh.Carolyn?Yeah, actually john and I talked about this before and I do think we have to take a look at not just our, it is sort of our policies but what can be done because it is, we do sort of struggle with even the law about whether we could not allow someone back into our system or not or around or system or not. That's something that we will don't look at including with law enforcement and I know we talked with admin as well and look a little deeper to protect our employees.I would just sk if this could go back, not this report, but this particular subject to lens committee. I think that would be helpful. The only other thing I would add is there would be a benefit to having the district attorney and someone from the sheriff's office present to that committee just on the framework of the laws because I think that's a really good point because so much of the work we are doing is on public roperty that be don't necessarily own. I know that adds a complication. Thank you.Thank you. and that's all the hands I see raised. And this also was an informational item. So there is no need for a motion. We will now go to other items for item referral to administration director peralez?Yes, thank you very much, and I have one which is just a reiterate where we come back to the board for discussion and two, I would like to make an additional item and I know there has been on going work with mtc on fare integration, and y council colleagues know that we have adopted in san jose the seamless transfer, and would like to bring back the pilot and would like to see bring back the seamless transfer principles.Carolyn?Yes, we have a workshop in February and we are going to talk about the network management work that's being done by fcc to discuss fare integration and have a discussion about that and come back to talk about the seamless transportation. Initiatives or guidelines. I forgot what you said, principles?Yes. appreciate that. thank you.Thank you. director chavez?Thank you. I am very interested in the continuation of a program that I know our staff had been looking at two or three years ago and that is in partnership with the alliance referrals, there is a body of work that they are doing with public transportation agencies in the bay area to make public transportation safe togirls and women. And they have a program actually that is not one more girl is a hashtag regarding public safety. My request is through the director to follow up on that body of work and bring that o the public safety committee that glen shares.Thank you.Carolyn, did you want to comment?No, I just got briefed on that campaign because it had been discussed hen I was not here. So we have actually reassigned it, but I think it's important to bring through. I will have to say, it meet not as often as other committees, but we May need to remedy that.Or you can put it through admin and finance. It's not within our purview, but I would love that.Fpc can find a way to do it.I haven't mentioned more that I want to add to you, glen, on the master plan.Whatever it is, we'll find a way to do it.That's good to hear. just keep piling on. I don't see other hands raised. We are going to are there any announcements? I don't see any hands raised. We are going to and this is for those who we should to speak on item 8. 3.Do we have any hands raised?I see no hands, chair, thank you.Okay, thank you.We now move on to item 9. 9. Closed session - anticipated litigation [government code section before we go to losed session, would any members like to discuss on the closed session items?There are no hands raised. chair.All right. board, you have been sent a link by the board office. Please turn off the video during closed session. Do not leave or log off zoom so you can return