Meeting is adjourned. Thank you, evGood weekend, everyone.Thank you. we will end t>>>#5:29 PMMarch 3, 2022 santa clara valley transpoation authority5:31 PM>>>>5:32 PMChair jones: I would like to call this meeting to order.[roll call]We have a quorum. thank you.Thank you. moving to 1. 2, orders of the day. I want to note that we have an addendum to the agenda.The additions are item 6. 12. X, adopt an amended regional measure 3, resolution of project compliance, letter of no prejudice for the construction phase of the east bridge to bart project. The resolution waspreviously adopted without the attachment. We are correcting that now by adopting the amendedresolution. Closed session items, items 7. 1. D. X, conference with legal counsel, anticipated litigation, and d. X. X conference with labor negotiators. There is a slight change on the agenda language for item 8. 4,exclusive negotiations agreement to add the words up to for the extension. The agenda language for thisitem is on your screen. Staff is requesting the following changes. Here item 7. 1. D. Xx as the first closed session item, 7. 1. D, agenda item 8. 7. After agenda item 81. Staff is also requesting to adjourn the meeting in memory of michael evanho. He was a seasoned transportation specialist since 1965 and vta'schief development officer when he retired. He was hired in March f 1988. During his tenure, he was responsible for the long range transportation planning and programming and the highway area, marketing and congestion management. Together with his colleagues at vta and partners at the county, they were able to deliver the 19 measure b projects. His contributions to the transportation industry were recognized by the california state legislature in 2004, on his retirement from vta with the designation of the u. S. 101state route 85 interchange in the city of san jose as the michael michael evanho interchange. Cal trans is working to have this change done. Michael was well respected by his peers, staff and elected stakeholders.He got his job done right and he nurtured and mike passed away November 22, 2021. He will be missed.Are there any changes from my colleagues? If not, I would like to ask for a moment of silence. ( moment of silence )5:36 PMThank you. I don't see hands raised by my colleagues. So we are going to move on. I want to remind everyone that we have a full agenda tonight, and we have two times when the board needs to go n closedsession. I would like to encourage everyone to be as concise as possible. May I have a motion to approvethe rders of the day.5:37 PMThis is glen. so mved.A motion by director hendricks and jain.5:38 PMRoll call, please.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Thank you. motion passed.Thank you.Next is awards and commendation. 2. 1. Action item - adopt the resolution of appreciation for vta chief of system safety and security, angelique gaeta. Second?Moved by chavez, seconded by jain. All right.Chair, May we take public comment first.Ys. sure.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: hi, thank you. I would like to wish ms. -- all the best in her new job in campbell. She used to work in san jose. It's nice to see life changes take place. I quickly wanted to ask. Was it asked at the beginning of the meeting at orders of the day for public comment because of so many items changed on orders of the day, it seems appropriate to ask for public comment. My han was raised to thank yourself tohave public comment at such time. Roland used to be very good at that and very polite about it. I hope you can be considering that in the future for public comment when you have so many changes n the orders of the day time. Thank you.5:39 PMRoachel, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: rachel, if you want to click onunmute, you May begin speaking.5:40 PMOkay. i'm going to the next person. Robert, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, my name is robert. Mechanic, I have been working for the company for 11 years. I have a family of four. This is my livelihood. If I lose this job, I don't know what i'm going to do. The company says they care about us, that they are doing this vaccine mandate because they care for the people that work for them, but they are willing to have me lose my job.Robert, sorry for interrupting. This is not the right item. You will have an opportunity to speak to that but not on this item.5:41 PMWhen will that be?There will be public comment for that item.This item is for 2.1. the gaeta. On and commend for ms. - if you are going to speak on this item, please do so now. The other items is on no. 3.You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. I would like to personally and publiclythank angelique for all of her hard work and her fearless leadership came at a great time and great positive strides came from her support and dedication to safety and security for vta. I just wish her nothing but the best and thank you.5:42 PMClerk: that concludes public comment, chair jones.Thank you.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] motion passed chair. Thank you.Thank you and thank you angelique for being here tonight. Now I will read the abbreviated resolution.Whereas angelique is leaving vta after serving for five years and integrity to commitment to personal excellence. First as chief of staff and systems safety and security. And whereas angelique's leadership and contributions led to a long list of vta accomplishments which include enhancement of vta systems and security. Successful negotiation of the operations and maintenance and securing safety certification for bart, silicon valley extension 1. Whereas angelique served tirelessly to serve during the dynamics of covid-19 pandemic, and whereas angelique maintained a safe and secure transit system secured by vta, and whereas angelique played a leadership role as a vta safety and security representative with immediate response to regulatory communication as well as serving with compassion to employees following the May 2021 event. Now therefore the santa clara valley valley transportation authority board of directors express vta's sincere appreciation and gratitude to angelique gaeta for her service at vta and adopted by the boardof directors this third day of March 3, 2022. Can we give angelique let's give a round of applause? [ applause ] angelique, would you like to say a few words?5:45 PMI was hoping you wouldn't put me on the spot. Thank you for for allowing know work for vta and alongside you and the great staff at vta. They are all great people. I am confident they will take care of you in the years oming forward. Good luck to you all and i'm just phone call away. Thank you and take care.Thank you, angelique. it's been an honor to work with you. Now I will ask my fellow board members to turn on their video so we can take a screen shot. Make sure they get your good side and give us a big smile.Hi, everyone, rochelle here. I will be taking a group photo. Two more seconds for those who need to turn on their video and I will be taking two photos. Thank you, everyone. Congratulations.5:46 PM3. Public comment reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within theboard's jurisdiction but not on the agenda. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. This section of the agenda is limited to no more than 30 minutes but could be extended at the discretion of the chairperson. Those who requested to speak but were unable to address the board on item #3 due to the time limit will have theopportunity to address the board on the second public comment, under 'other items'. The law does not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under specialcircumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing. I would like to remind thespeaker to stay on time and direct your comments to the board. Personal attacks are not appropriate and using slanderous and profane remarks is prohibited. Disrupting the meeting is not allowed. Speakers who make such remarks or anyone disrupting the money will not be allowed to speak and/or be removed from the meting. If you want to address the board on matters not on the agenda, please raise our hand now using the app or press star 9 on the phone. We will now start public comments.5:48 PMYes. I would like to remind you, rbert, you can now speak on this item. First, anne, you May begin speakinspeaking. Good evening, demanding that an employee be vaccinated exemplifies the hypocrisy of vta.Employees worked throughout the entire pandemic fighting while these measures were being implemented and while on the threat of losing their jobs and some held against on their religious believes. Only godknows. And vta continues he behavior of the hostile work environment and continues to magnify the situation. Your employees feel betrayed by an ungrateful and disloyal employer.5:49 PMNext is blair. public speaker: hi, blair here. Thanks for the meeting tonight. My usual reminder at publiccomment time. There is about 40 speakers at the bart station, we can bring it down to 15. I think minimal practices and minimal use ideas for technology is much more important than creating a plethora of technology and say that it's somehow aesthetically appropriate. Good luck in your next year making biocamera technology accessible. With all the public policy with technology ideas at this time, there could be a really safe neutral safe with how to have open conversations about these subjects. Good luck to all sides in the ukraine area and to work towards idea of peace at this time.5:51 PMNext speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready. J t public speaker: good evening, board members, this is john, vice-president of a 265. I want to be brief and I want you to hear the numbers. We have approximately 1512 atu members of all classifications, bus, rail, operators, mechanics, overhead line that keep the rail running and of our members, 694 members are not compliant with the policy. I'm just going to be straight forward. I hope you are hearing me. If even a fifth of these members, they hold firm to their beliefs, we will not be able to provide service to the public. Please hear those numbers, 694.5:52 PMRobert, you May begin speaking when you are ready. . Public speaker: hi, i'm robert, a father of four. We made a livelihood of this state of ours and being at risk of losing my job over beliefs is riculous. Vta says they care about us and why they are doing these mandates. They don't care what will appen if I lose my job, my family, my kids, my wife. What will be available for us if I don't have this job. It's very imperative that we are able to continue to work. I worked through the pandemic. I was not afraid of covid. I havebeen there through thick and thin providing this service for the company. I can't believe they are willing to let me go over something so controversial. Public speaker: at the peak of the pandemic, we were considered heroes and now many of us are considered zeroes. We are no longer important to the vta.Approximately 800 thousand employees of been reinfected with covid. This place that is supposed to be a safe workplace, will have more consequences to my family and i.5:54 PMI believe that concludes public comment, Mr. Chair.Hank you. we don't have items on item 4. Now we are moving to item 5. 1. Committee reports. We will take public comment at the conclusion of the reports. 5. Reports committee (cac) chairperson's report.(verbal report) (swaminathan) is here to provide the report.5:55 PMThank you, Mr. Chair and all the members of the board. I'm the chair of the citizens advisory committee.We welcomed four new members to the committee, debra armstrong, kiley and peter and rob georgerepresenting the business and stakeholder group. We will have two more vacancies and will continue to have open applications. Thank you for your support for looking for members and allowing know speak on this continuously. We were finally able to fill these vacancies. We want to speak to member and appreciate her taking the time to speak with our members. We received a comprehensive presentation of vta's title 6program and what we need to remain compliance with the title 6 requirements. Lastly, we received an update on the bicycle pedestrian education program for fiscal year 2021. This is agenda item 6. 7 on youragenda tonight. Our regular meeting will be held next week, wednesday, March 9, 4:00 p. M. Planning a workshop meeting to focus on our role beginning at 3:00 p. M. On the same day. This will be very useful to our members. We anticipate a release of our agenda tomorrow to inform the public. Thank you and that concludes my report. I'm happy to answer any questions.5:57 PMThank you for your leadership. I don't see any hands raised for item 5. 1. B. 5. 1. B. Policy advisory committee (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore)Thank you, chair jones, thursday, February 2022, we refund the annual transportation systems monitoring report and presentation following a robust committee discussion on the maintenance and transportationinfrastructure in santa clara county. The committee encouraged vta to coordinate with cities to plan for highway clean up events, ask questions about how graffiti hot spots are identified, mapped and addressedand acquired penalties for illegal dumpings and share the schedule with upcoming clean up events with the community to help with public participation. We recommend the adoption of the update of the bicycle chapter of the update to the bicycle guidelines and received the program for projects quarterly monitored report and for bicycle and pedestrian education and encouragement program progress for fiscal year 2021.The next pac meeting is cheduled for March 10, 4:00 p. M. Through zoom teleconference. Thank you.5:58 PMThank you for your leadership. 5. 1. C. Standing committee chairpersons' report. (verbal report)Chair, my hand s raised. sorry, director paul. Go ahead.Thank you, chair. chair of the pac, I have a question. At the end of last year, the board made a request in regard to funding and we are doing what we can to support housing services. Has pac heard that and if not yet, what is the schedule looking like?5:59 PMThank you, mayor paul. so I did speak to our liaison today and we have not received a report about measure a, but it might be that our questions are st directed to the county with regards to how that funding has beenmplemented to date. And it's a great question and perhaps our liaison would like to answer as well to help with you that. Thank you.Thanks very much. I will add to that that it wasn't in so much as county policy but more in lines of whatvta policy should be with regard to approaching measure a usage.6:00 PMOkay. then with regards to that, that is coming to the pac to discuss the policy. Okay. So I had someconfusion about whether where the funds were directed and the progress for measure a, but the policy issues are coming to the pac.Is that in the next meeting?I would need to look at the work plan but our liaison can tell you or I can tell you off line.Okay, I look forward to seeing that information. Thank you.Thank you. ceforanide # chairpersons' report. (verbal report) send is also on the online packet. I will now take public comment. Do we have any public speakers?6:01 PMYes. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: to speak about the diridon committee meeting. I think you tried to open up to describe that diridon station planning and high-speed rail, these are projects that conceivably won't be ready until the mid-30s and 40s and 50s. To learn to talk about those timelines and include other parts of the bay area that might be part of the future of high-speed rail, those are important concepts. Good luck with that. A very much thank you to the committee advisories and committees that you are still working toward great ideals and practices on the board and committees.That takes a lot of work. So just thank you for those continued thoughts in ways to continue to work in those efforts.6:02 PMThat concludes public comment, chair jones.Thank you, public comment for item 5. 1 are now closed. This takes us to (verbal report) carolyn?Thank you.Just a few items tonight. [lost connection]6:03 PMCarolyn, you cut out. because it did say it kicked me off. It's frozen now. Carolyn, while you are getting --Okay, my whole computer went out. Just a minute. So -- [lost connection] the images of our light railsystem on the very first page. As a tribute to the guadalupe employees, the artwork has been placed in the halls of building I and a. I am grateful danny -- and for the walls. On February 24th, congressman -- at our division and santa clara bart station. [lost connection] we are pleased to receive his commitment to santa clara valley and the congressman who are leaders of the aciu. The next item. Here the trains enter the guadalupe yard and the expected completion dat date. We expect o complete the work. We have the first event of monthly clean ups. We welcomed 16 new employees. The class size was smaller than usual. The agency likes to seek around 30. The next class is also smaller as well. We'll continue on our recruiting side.A sixth grader collaborate on this project. The slogan, if you can do anything, be kind. We tested critical emergency response. Santa clara county sheriff's office among others. We were happy to have thattraining exercise. That concludes my report. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Now for public comment.6:09 PMYou May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: blair, thank you. You mentioned thecongressman was in town and mentioned training practices and thank you that you are doing some work on that. My brain is not coming through right nw. For the issue in ukraine, i'm sorry about that. Public speaker: I think it's an awesome idea that we bring more women in. Unless you have been a bus operator or train operator and a single mother, you don't really understand the needs of the women coming in, and I think it would be awesome if there was some sort of committee or input that you can get from the womenthat are already operators to help with this because like I said, I think it's awesome that more women are driving the bus. That's all I have to say on that. Thank you.6:10 PMClerk: that concludes public comment.6:11 PMThank you. are there any comments for our general manager? I don't see any hands raised. Next item 5.3. The chairperson's report. The January annual american awards recognize the outstanding achievement completed by california firms. I am very pleased to announce the pedestrian over passing has received the acec merit award. The crossing bridge provides a safe convenient and direct link between the milpitas bartstation campus and the high density residential development, shopping, hotels, schools. Congratulations to the team for winning this recognition. The next slideshows some f the photos taken from the express lane opening celebration last February 10th. I want to thank the san mateo county transportation agencies,transportation, the cities of mountain view, palo alto and sunnyvale and partners to collaborate with vta to complete this project. We've come a long way with expresslanes program and with phase 3, ourexpresslanes go all the way up to san mateo county border where they continue on up the peninsula.About 30,000 vehicles are being used on the 35 daily and expresslanes is about 20-25 miles per hour providing allowable time benefits. In this photo, i'm with our general manager, assembly member and san bruno medina, cal trans district 4 director, san mateo deputy, ccag chair and her colleague colleague, senator was not able to attend. Board member hendricks also attended. Lastly, I would like to thank all who made this project come to a reality and make this project successful. We will now take ublic comments on the chair's report.6:14 PMClerk: there are no hands raised.Okay. thank you. public comments are now closed. This takes us to item 6, consent agenda. Items 6. 1 hrough 6. 12. Members of the public who would like to address the board on an item on consent agenda, please raise your hand now or press star 9 on the phone. To my colleagues, is there anyone who wants to pull an item off consent or add an item to the consent agenda? I see director jain.I didn't want to pull anything but I have a comment on 6. 5. Should I do that now?6:15 PMHold on the comment. I want to first find out if any board members want to have any abstentions or recusals. Hearing none, go ahead and make your comment.I'm glad that it's a secure biking spot increased from one to three. There was a recommendation or one outlet per bike room in the recommendation, and I hope that in the future that will be increased to let's say one outlet for ten bikes. We are starting to put electric chargers in every spot in the parking garage for cars, and ev electric bikes are becoming extremely popular. Putting one outlet in a large room does notwork. Thank you.6:16 PMMembers of the public that would like to comment, please press star 9.Clerk: blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, thank you, blair to speak to item 6. 6. This is eally the item that really speaks to surveillance and technology issues. Wi hope wecontinue to consider open accountability with technology. It is so necessary and easy and peaceful. It eally develops ideas of peace, dmocracy, organization, just great practices for all parts of the community. It's something we can all share and be a part of, and leave the era of war. That's what this work is designed todo. It's pretty awesome stuff. So I really invite yourselves with biometric camera things that if you invite a more open public process you get more of a trusting hopeful community. Thank you.6:17 PMThat concludes public comment, chairperson jones.All right. we will now close public comment for items on consent. May I have a motion and second to approve the consent agenda.Jain would like to move to approve the consent calendar.Second. constantine.I see member paul has his hand raised.6:18 PMSorry about that. I would like to hear item 6. 9.Okay, we will pull item 6.9.Jain would like to approve the balance of the consent calendar.Thank you.So we will take the, approve the balance of the consent calendar and take up 6. 9 separately. Elaine?6:19 PMYes, chair. this is to approve the consent agenda except item 6. 9. [roll call] [roll call] motion passed.Thank you.I see director lee. your hand is raised?Yes, chair jones, i'm wondering if it's possible for our board clerk to announce the vscrotal vote -- alphabetically.Duly noted. at this time it will be random but next time e will.Director hendricks?6:20 PMLast year we used to do it alphabetically and I asked the staff to do it in a random vote so the same people weren't always voting last. Staff can look at that but there was a reason for the change before.Thank you.Item 6.9, member paul, you wanted to get a brief presentation of that?Yes, five minutes would be great.Member paul, if we can have the presentation on 6. 9 after the board goes into closed session. I still need to get all the materials ready so it's all queued up, if it's all right.6:21 PMOkay, understood.Thank you.We'll take up 6.9 after ( closed session ). We are now onto item 7. Closed session. We are going to discuss7 dxx. Are there any questions from the public?We have one hand up, blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. Blair here.Kind of what I asked at this time and I know you are uncomfortable with. For yourselves as a board to be able to discard to ourselves to the public for these closed session meetings in the middle of a meeting, how long around do you think you will be in a meeting, will it be 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 60 minutes. If youexplain that to the public, it will be a more accessible understandable process so we are not confused.People will know when to return. If you offer that feature, it doesn't have to be set in stone, but it gives agood idea on how people can come back to the session and when they can return. Thank you very much for your time. And consideration and my words for this item.6:22 PM> hat concludes public comment.Okay, we will close public comment for 7. 1. D. X. Members, please use the link for closed session, please turn off6:47 PMRecording was Paused6:48 PMYour mic phone and video. Please do not log off so you can rejoin our meeting after closed session. We will now6:49 PM>> we have now back to open session. The general counsel will provide the report.Thank you. chair. the board did not take any action for item 7. D xx. Thank you. I don't see any hands raised for the closed session report. We will go back to item 6. 9. I want to remind the public that we will recess to closed session again after we go through all the items on the agenda to discuss the remaining closed session items.6:50 PMSo we are now onto item 8.1 8. 1. Action item - approve and formally adopt a successor labor agreementnegotiated between santa clara valley transportation authority (vta) and service employees international unions (seiu) local 521.Thank you, chair jones, and good evening, everyone. This is a formal vote on a suck successor agreement between atu and aciu. This tentative agreement s for a five year agreement with a two angerd three year agreement runs through December 31st of 2024. Additionally, this agreement provides for a $3500 bonus per seiu employee, showing appreciation for all the work that has been done in the last few years as well as a salary realignment for several employees in certain categories that have lagged behind in recent years. We are requesting the board to approve this agreement and vta wholeheartedly supports it. Thank you.6:51 PMThank you. we will now go to public comment. Do we have any members of the public that would like tocomment on this item?6:52 PMYou May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you very much for this item and thatagreements are being reached with aciu. I think this is a great example for san francisco and oakland. How to address covid issues when vaccine questions are an issue and maybe what can be public safety ways to work that May not be fully included in the vaccine process. Anything that considers these possibilities with atu members at this time can be really helpful and constructive, I think, and show a sign of good faith and how to work to help answer these difficult vaccine questions for ourselves at this time. Good luck how we can address the future of the vaccine issue for the vta. Thank you.6:53 PMThat concludes public comment.We will now close public comment on this item. Are there any questions from my colleagues? Director hendricks?I move we adopt the agreement with vta and seiu according o the agreement.6:54 PMSecond.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Thank you. motion passes.Thank you. we will hear item 8. 7 after 8. 1. At this time I would like to welcome steve palmer, fromwashington to provide the report. Steve is on the east coast and it's getting late for him. We want to be sure he has an opportunity to present while he's still awake.6:55 PMThank you, chair. I wish I was there in person but i'm happy to be here with you today. I will give you an update and on the operations process and hopefully set up the stage and talk about what we are doing onbehalf of vta with congress and the department of transportation. So, the infrastructure investment and jobs act is what congress calls it. The biden administration calls it. I'm going to give you both names. It's a huge increase for the federal transit administration. It's over $5 billion for five years for the transportationprogram for the next five years. The majority of that money comes out of the highway trust fund for transit. There aren't a lot of new programs for fta in this bill because the people that were negotiating the bill were not transportation experts. They were ten senators from the democracy and the republican side and they wanted to see infrastructure bill and not all were in transit. The new transit bill basically are a railcar replacement program and I will talk about these later. An accessibility grant program for ada compliance and there are significant increases for funding. I will talk about this in a second. Some of them are for capital improvement project and that is set by congress and that does affect this bill. I mentioned that transit is going to see a big increase. It's simple to look at fy21, almost $13 billion and fy22. Once this proposal bill is done, it will go up to $1 trillion. It's significant and then t goes to the formula fund. You can see where the majority of the money goes. The program see's a big increase and the capital investment program will grow substantially, and the state of good epair which is for the railcar programs, vta qualifies for some of that money, but not a huge amount. The majority of the money goes to the transportation system. The smaller slices, are a different formula and competitive program which I will talk about. Before I get to the grants. There are a number of different priorities from the biden administration putting on there and these are the ones that we are working. We want to work with fta and staff talking about where is the grant that we are talking about and how do they emphasize the vta strengths to compete more effectively. Safety is obvious. Modernization. We want to see more of the system continue to develop and grow in a more modern way. I know a safety car and light rail safety is an important part of that effort and we are going to work on that safety and monitor that. Climate change is an important part of what the biden administration wants to get done, not surprisingly. Zero emissions, electrifying the maintenance facilities is what we are working to try to accomplish and will continue o do so. Equity, it hasn't gotten a lotof attention but to highlight, one of the things that biden administration wants to do is that 40% of these grant funds go to areas where economic and social disabilities that support people going to work, women and minority owned businesses and where there has been a disparity with transit service to date. They reallyant to focus on the transit areas that need it the most. Working with fta will be a part of what we do.Where do we stand with this money. The grant program, the solicitation, the notice of funding opportunity was released in early january. That grant application is due in mid-april. That's the most competitiveprogram that we have seen over the last several years. The national infrastructure program really has a better name. It's called the mecca project. We are looking at the bart extension as a possible mega project grant application opportunity working with the staff because that's a new program. That notice of fundingopportunity what we expect is going to be released next week and will be a new program where they will look to try to help transportation entities that are looking for significant infrastructure and improvementsand we hope the bart extension will compete well on that. Our technology isnfrastructure andtransportation systems, I mentioned that formula four programs are going to 40% and once there are appropriations and operating on the continual resolution, that money will be available to the fta. Obviouslyvta continues to work with mtc to be sure it gets its share of that funding and there is the competitive bus program s well as the low emissions program and electrifying the buses and the maintenance for vta. That is going to increase to $1 billion a year. That is five year money. So there is money in 2022 through 26.That's something we'll work with vta to be sure they position themselves and have these grant opportunities as you move ahead.7:01 PMHere are we on appropriations. The new year began and the resolution expired in 8 days. Congress has reached a general agreement and now they are on supplemental appropriation bills for covid and the war in ukraine. That has helped congress finalize these bills and we are going to see these bills coming out thisweekend. The transportation bill has been cut so while there is a guaranteed amount of money for capital investment grants that came out of the infrastructure bill, congress assumes there will be additional funds through the appropriations process. We have been told by the staff that they do not have the resources to invest all the money that was envisioned in the capital investment program and that will affect the program for 2022. There is still going to be $160 million available but not as much as what was envisioned last year hen they passed the infrastructure bill. Each house member was limited to ten projects. We do xpect earmarks to be in the final bill and be back this year and we are trying to focus on that. As you saw the president ave the state of the union this week, one of the things with the awards not mentioned, talking about a number of programs to see get done, we are still working to get the affordable housing grant. That is a $10 million grant for affordable housing. And what was crafted is an increased federal share above the urrent limits so that potential vta can get an additional 10% of federal funding for the extension project. That's not in the legislation now, but that's something that was in the house bill and hoping it gets included in the final bill. So looking ahead. We know that the margins have been incrediblyclose in the house and senate this year. Also you are well aware that a number of democrats are retiring, 31 announced this year and 14 republicans and five from the bay area and the one from the appropriationcommittee. We don't know what's going to happen but that's historical. The senate is 50/5 the powertypically loses, democrats, we are looking good this year. If both houses flip, the majority will be for the biden administration, much more focused on giving out the grants on the infrastructure bill and the area that would necessarily affect vta. That is it. I'm happy to answer any questions and look forward to being with you in person next time.7:05 PMGreat. thank you, steve, for that presentation. We will now take public comments. Would any members of the public like to speak for this item?Yes, we have one, blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. Thank you very much for this item. I'm interested in these ideas. These sound like long-range planning over the next 5-10 years in funding. Thank you for considering how funding for new light rail cars and such. I think it's important to consider the possibility of a centralized system for future of light rail and buses extend out in the light rail and could be what light rail could be or san jose. With my remaining time, i'm interested in the next few years. How we can talk about planning and projects and memos that can be all open and honest to what we can expect for ourselves in the next few years. If we do that, it creates a community of safety instead of fear, which we need at this time. Thank you.7:06 PMThat oncludes public comment, chair jones.I will now close public comment for this item. Are there any questions from my colleagues? I don't see any hands raised. Steve, thank you for the presentation. I'm looking forward to see what comes out ofwashington.7:07 PMThank you.That was an informational item. We don't need a motion. We will now return to consent item 6. 9. Is staff ready to present?> this is scott johnson. i'm available to answer any questions on the ethics report we submitted.Okay, thank you.# director paul?Yes, thank you so much. do you have a five minute summary on the item? Do you want to preface it with an update?7:08 PMI would be happy to. byw way of background, this is a hotline hosted by a third party provider, ethical advocate. Then the auditor general has the responsibility to independently evaluate, investigate nd in some cases we do refer cases to administration. Usually we May refer if they are employee related to the officeof civil rights for follow up and investigation. Sometimes, depending on the nature of the allegation withinthe report, we May take a portion of that report and the allegations and do a separate investigations and as it relates to employee issues refer to the office of civil rights. Usually these reports that we receive, we get them through email through the host, third party provider. So we have direct access to that. Theemployees of vta have access to submit, we call reports of any concerns because we really think it's important that if you see something, say something. The auditor general's office takes the position of beingobjective and independent and reviewing the report and assessing them and in some cases investigating and forming our conclusions related to the reports. It's also my understanding that the administration is working on more of an outreach to employees and to the vendors to make sure they are aware of this avenue where they could independently objectively and anonymously submit reports that would bereviewed and potentially investigated. The auditor general primarily focuses on fraud, waste and abuse as it relates to the ethics hotline. If it's related to employees or abuse, it's related to the office of civil rights.This is broken down in a quarterly report for the last calendar year of December 2021, and finally we have a summary of the reports that we received in calendar year 2021 from January 1st hrough December 31st.We received 12 reports, six of those related to employee conduct, or abuse, the other half was for potentialethics and policy violations that we reviewed. We currently have seven reports under investigation and actually subsequent to this report we closed out one and there was another one that is almost ready to be issued and closed out. We work directly also with the counsel and we do report to the appropriate departments what our conclusion or recommendations are if there are any and what our observations are.These are confidential by law, so it's basically on a need to know basis and we really value and protect that confidentiality of the reports that were submitted by the reporter. With that, hat summarizes our report.7:12 PMThank you so much. chair, should I ask my question now? I noticed that --I know carolyn wants to weigh in.We reissued an awareness on the anonymous and the value and helps with fraud and ways to secure a more valuable report. Ooh! Wr y r --We have this on our website and making sure that folks know that's available.Thank you.7:13 PMDirector paul?Great, and that really is precisely the nature of my question here. Which was basically are we doing amounts of outreach and I appreciate the mechanisms of outreach especially given that we have video meetings now. Maybe we can have larger meetings with employees to remind them of this as a mechanism for airing the concerns that May exist. I do appreciate the detail with regard to outreach. The numbers from this last quarter seem kind of low when you put them to perhaps some publicity recently. To me it seems that these go hand in hand with each other to help offset some of the concerns that don't make it to that point in terms of publicity but more importantly addressing them before they become longstandingproblems. Yeah, if there is any other form of outreach that we can be doing to really make that as a type of complaint process known, i'm really very much appy to support it.7:14 PMAll right. thank you. I will now take public comments on 6. 9.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair here, this is part of ideas of morale. Thank you very much. It's really needed. Since the george floyd incidents and all the work I have been doing with accountability, it's naturally around ideas of whistle blower protection ideas and the and the seiu working with police for the whistle blower protection ideas if you talk about these issues. To start a peer review program that was also mentioned by police, it can be for everybody. A good counseling program, a good peer review program to compliment everyone could be a good one too for our future.7:15 PMThat is public comment, chair jones.Okay, we will close public comment for this item. Director paul, you still have your hand raised. Go ahead and make the motion.7:16 PMI greatly appreciate. I won't belabor the point, but I would like to add a comment as well. Perhaps an audit process to identify the problems and address them. I think the elevated outreach is a great start. It's just acomment as to what might help us in this process. I would be happy to move the item. Thank you.Okay. I was just notified.There is no motion needed.6.9 was an information item, not an action item. So we don't need to take a motion on that.Great.Is a motion possible or because it's an information item, we are not able to make a motion on this?7:17 PMWe can't make a motion on it, but i'm sure your comments will be considered by staff.I appreciate it.Onto item 8.2 which is to action item - authorize the general manager to procure up to 109 class p vanpromaster 3500 vehicles and associated equipment in an amount up to $14,170,000 for paratransit services. Procurement of the aforementioned vehicles will use the state of california purchasing contract for paratransit vehicles and associated equipment and services. Eric will provide the report.7:18 PMGood evening, chairperson jones and board members. I'm here today to recommend that the vta board of directors authorize to procure 109 vans. This is a replacement of older units. 109 are being replayedednow before the old units retire. It could take about up to a year to be built and delivered. The purchase of these vehicles will use the state of california purchasing contract that will reduce the cost of purchase by$8500 per unit. A new vehicle will improve the accessibility of the fleet and ccommodate more than 24% of ambulatory passengers. All of these vehicles will become accessible. As you see if the photo here, some of the units that are retiring 2012, 21 cut aways, 32 vans, 56 prius. The low floor vans wereore accessible due to the low floor and a space in the room that allows us to put two wheelchairs in it. The double door entry is easy for passengers and those using a wheelchair. The height within the vehicle, seven foot is highand provides spacious room to walk. The a c unit also provides greater cooling and creates more reliability for the service and better customer service to our passengers. The additional capacity will also assist in nightly and daily scheduled performance operations. As you can see in these pictures here, the seating provide for seven seats and two wheelchairs. The ramp as you can see in the middle has clear egress in and out. Currently with this fleet, we'll be using a discount of 8$8500 off. The vehicle will pick up twovehicles at one time and the chassis is being procured and can accommodate future technology. Two usb charges will assist with the technology charging. The larger vehicle and transit drivers, were very excited and most of them enjoyed the act that they can get around the vehicles to provide proper securement on the mobility devices. The tie downs are easily stored providing a safer vehicle. As you can see the largerinterior space provides more accommodations. You can see with the graphics, the vehicle is very cleanlooking, it's not extremely high roof for the vehicle, but it is a low floor vehicle which tends to give it a nice ride for the passengers. We are looking forward to the newer vehicle. With that, this concludes mypresentation. I'm available for questions.7:22 PMThank you, eric. we will now take public comments.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thanks. Blair here. I worked on a few items with michelle during the time of covid and asked aut to be sure how vehicles can be cleaned forpublic accessibility vehicles, and paratransit vehicles and could be good and coupled with the cleaning practice with the public, it doesn't have to be so fearful. That's great accountability ideas and good shared practice with the community. Michelle match burn who works in san jose who is a very decent minded advocate for paratransit issues and the like if you haven't talked to her already. Good luck with this item.Thank you.7:23 PMThat concludes public comment, chair.All right. we'll close public comment and bring it back to the board.7:24 PMThank you. I couldn't find anything on the presentation on the environmental aspects of these vehicles.And so first I will start with that question.So the vehicles that we procured are the new vehicles that gain 15 miles to the gallon which is greater the cut away vehicles that we currently have in space and better than the actual caravans that are runninginservice. Hey are going to be more efficient in the fuel. With the additional capacity being over 25% capacity, we will actually be able to pick up and transport more people with vehicles. At this time, t is not being created.7:25 PMNo hybrid vehicles available either?Not the paratransit vehicles.You said if we place this order now, we will have the vehicles by the spirs of the ones we are replacing.How many vehicles do we have?We have 202.So but this is about 100?109.And we get these within a year and you say we are ordering them now to replace half of our fleet?Some of these are aging fleet by 2012. And they need to be out by 2022. And we need to have those vehicles out of service because they have met their time in the service.7:26 PMWhen we say they have met their time in the service, we have a projected time to buy the vehicles but not necessarily where we are in terms of the vehicle with how much additional life they might have. Have we an appraised the ctual vehicles for the formulaic approach?No, we have not.The eason I ask that is that we are going into a transformation in greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles.In each year we are seeing ramp ups from the cost and I don't know what's on the horizon for paratransitvehicles. They May not be on the top of the list but in the next two years, we are expecting to see commercial vans entering the market of different sorts. It seems like they are potentially in this category.I'm asking about replacing half now even with an engine that is better. If we look at an alternative approach of purchasing the minimum we need now, what might that look like?7:27 PMSome of the vehicles we have are past their useful life. Getting new vehicles now, we had an order for 2021 but we were not able to get that vehicle and had to evaluate these vehicles as they became available.We buy these through state procurement which allows us to save on the cost for the vehicles that areavailable. These dodgers at this time are the best vehicles that we can get.7:28 PMRight, my question is hat portio of these do we really need to get this year versus if we were to want to look at an alternative approach of getting the necessary number this year and perhaps pushing out by oneor two years the balance?5757 vehicles. we went with he consideration of being able to make the entire fleet wheelchair accessible, which is a very advantageous position to assist the passengers that we serve because then the closest vehicle can pick up the passenger it needs to pick up which is the demand response need. That's a real change for the service and the delivery which is always important that we deliver the highest level of service to the passengers.7:29 PMI appreciate that there is a performance and service value for the replacement at this time. Chair, I see Mr. Lawson wanted to chime in.Yes. we certainly appreciate the comment you made regarding the performance of these vehicles. It's staff's position that this would replace the largest fleet at this point because of the reasons articulated.This is an extremely vulnerable population. The vehicles that we have currently are not doing the job to our satisfaction, and we believe that we can provide a higher level of service to this vulnerable population using these vehicles. I would rather that they be zero emissions, absolutely and we can move in that direction going forward, but I would strongly suggest that the service level to the paratransit community is well worth this investment. Thank you.7:30 PMCan someone make sure i'm doing my math correctly. If we have $127 million, my estimate is that it comes out to $130,000 a vehicle. Is that correct?Yes.Is that just because of all the extra equipment it needs. Essentially we get a frame from the factory and they have to do all of this custom work to make it a paratransit vehicle?7:31 PMThat is correct and we add technology.That is a really expensive vehicle. In the packet, it looks like we had already programmed money towards this in fiscal year 2018 and 2020, but you showed the amount in 2. 6 and 2. 9 and it has this from the lcal.Can somebody just explain like in fiscal year 018, $2. 6 million. Is 80% of that coming from federal and 20% from us. What is the 20/80 really mean right there?7:32 PMThe 80/20 is 270 from the feds and then he local cost.So $14 million we are talking about doing this and esstially 80% is out of federal government grt funds around we are paying 20%. So it's a great deal, did I understand that correctly?It's a great deal.My perspective, you should have led with that.All right. noted.Thank you. i'm all in on this. Thank you. All right. There are no other hands raised.Chair, I think you have member paul's hand.7:33 PMI see it. no worries. member paul?What are the numbers that would use this service?In terms of the numbers we transport?How many people would benefit from this purchase?You mean passengers that ride paratransit services?Correct.We run over 300 daily trips a day. There is a lot of people that will be impacted by aving these new 2300 daily trips a day. There is a lot of people that will be impacted by having these new vehicles.Out of these 2300 trips a day, how many would benefit from this fleet?All of them because it's an on time performance because you are waiting for a vehicle on demand. Th schedule trips in advance. They go to the doctors, nutrition, daycares. These are very timely trips. The most vulnerable going to dialysis. They have to get on that dialysis machine on a very timely mission. Our on time performance with this particular service is I think what drives us to deliver the passengers the service they deserve.7:34 PMI see. okay. great, thanks. chair, can I make a brief comment at this time?Sure. go ahead.Yeah, in principal, I very much agree with the sentiment expressed by member bert. I think, we really have to weigh the cost and draw backs of such a significant a significant purchase of gas combustion vehicles even at 10% if we have a very significant amount of funding that is at stake here that we are getting a pretty good value for the dollar, but even if we reserve 10% and say, with this, we would like to be able to look towards the future and encourage industry to work with us and speed the abbicceleration of the electric vehicle usage. I have seen in the staff report talking about charging stations in 2026.Personally I won't if we are going out to the industry and with this, that we are leveraging a certain number of dollars and you have the transit agency going forward to say we can try to encourage themovement along. Is to buy 109 of these 15 miles per gallon vehicles at this time, we need to be carefulabout how we proceed. This is not an insignificant problem. I wish a little bit more evaluation had been done on that front and put some more thought to what we can do as an agency to move along thistechnology.7:36 PMMove hat we authorize the general manager to procure 109 vehicles for the amount listed in the staff report. I would be happy to make some comments about this.Second.7:37 PMOkay. it's been moved and seconded. Director hendricks?First of all, what is missed in the meetings that we have with bus and light rail and what we do. Paratransit is an important service that we have. I think these are very expensive vehicles, but they appear because of the functionality and they have to have a lot of customized equipment that's put into these. I think we should go ahead and go to get this done. I appreciate hearing from y colleagues about the low vehicleemissions and there are those vehicles that are going to be dealt with relatively soon and not going to the specialized vehicles and coming up with trucks soon and they are on the waiting list. The fact that these vehicles are getting 15 miles per gallon that highlight the weight making all of these vehicles that will bevery challenging for ev makers to get into this specialized field. While it might be good if we can get them, I don't think ev vehicles and it doesn't sound like they are interested in hybrid vehicles in this area with the manufactures. We can go as an industry to work with that and these are these long range items. But this is a very good ratio to get this. Let's go ahead and improve the service to our transit riders. I hope my colleagues can vote yes on this.7:39 PMI will be supporting the motion nd would like to ask the maker and seconder if we can add usb chargers in the vehicles and look at the company to determine whether or not there are going to be options in the future for retrofitting, and a report on funding for adding emergency communication options to the vehicles in the current contract for cctv procurement.All right. director hendricks, did you get all that?7:40 PMI think i'm good with that. I wanted to be sure staff doesn't have any huge heartburn with doing those things, but i'm good with that.Thank you.I can say as staff, we can provide that information.Is that okay with the seconder?Elaine, I didn't catch the seconder?That was board member jimenez.If that's okay with you, director lee?Yes, thank you. considering the environmental impact of this, I would like to ask for a friendly amendment for the staff to report back before the end of life of these new vehicles being purchased if zero emissions vehicles are being available to come back to the board for an additional discussion whether we might retire these vehicles sooner rather than their end of useful life whether it's ten years to look at the potential ost and benefits to see when that is possible. Is that acceptable?7:41 PMI'm good with that.Staff is fine with it.Board member, as the seconder, do you agree with that?Yes, that's fine.Thank you.Director chavez, anything else? All right. Director bert?Yes, following up on the environmental issues. I don't know whether this item as agendaized would allow my request, but I will toss t out there for consideration. Whether we can direct staff going forward that all vehicle related purchases have an environmental impact analysis and we look at weighing the different values and priorities including at a high importance, the environmental impact of these investments.7:42 PMOkay. if I May on behalf of staff, we do take that into serious consideration and whether or not these vehicles were not available and I commit to you on behalf of staff we will do that in the future.It was ood to hear that was part of the consideration and part of that is absent from the staff presentation.There is just no mention of it in anyway. And I think the board will want to ultimately weigh that consideration and those balances where it ppears in this case they were weighed for us by the staff and not even presented as something we should be looking at.7:43 PMYour point is well-taken and we will try to accommodate that in the future.Thank you.Thank you. director paul?Can we post the motion. I would like to see the language.The motion was to approve the staff report as you can see on your screen with the following additions. The inclusion of wifi, charging, and the air filtration system and the possibility of being able to charge the wheelchair, a report on the funding and cctv. In addition, board member lee requested that in the futurethere would be a report when these vehicles are towards the end of their life, if the zero emissions vehicles are available. That's what I got.7:44 PMThat's why I would like to see it written because i'm not sure what that last part -- entails.The last part was from member lee.My understanding that board member lee asked for if when vehicles of these type are available in a non-greenhouse gas producing option that that is brought back to the board so they can go ahead and retirethese vehicles earlier to get to that model of the locomotion.7:45 PMThat's correct. thank you very much.I was trying to pay attention.Good job, glen.I'm certainly inclined to vote before that amendment. That's why I wanted to see the language of it. I'm also inclined to ask to take a little bit more time here to evaluate it and to get a sense of what our options are. It would be a real shame o see in the initiative in the industry in the next year or two and maybe a major announcement made with regard to a lot of the various types of activities that are happening around the electric vehicle space, this being affected and knowing that we made collectively including, albeit a $15 million purchase in 109 vehicles and we would be looking at it well in advance of the retirement life. Iappreciate the fact that we had a lot of use and it would go for a good cause, but I do tend to think that we can benefit from some time and evaluation here. I also abide by member's report about coming back with the environmental impacts as opposed to assertions that would happen and we ought to make that part of the motion for this language in the future so we see that happening. Those are my comments.7:47 PMThank you. director jain?If we are going to look at the environmental impacts of this, the maintenance is far less for an electrical car. So we should also include a lifetime cost of these ehicles for retirement. Thank you.Thank you.Elaine, do we have public comment?Chair, I believe you already hosted public comment for that.7:48 PMAll right. we have a motion and second.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] motion passes with 9 ayes, 2 nos.Next item. action item - authorize the general manager to issue a request for offers (rfo) for the winchester transit center affordable housing transit-oriented development (tod) project in conjunction with the santa clara county office of supportive housing (osh) pursuant to the santa clara valley transportationauthority (vta) and osh cost sharing agreement for county measure a-funded affordable housing tod.Joslyn, senior agent will provide the report.7:49 PMGood evening, vta board chair jones and directors. My name is jessie, tod program manager. I would like to introduce joslyn who is the tod project manager who will be introducing this site. I'm here to address any questions if needed.Thank you, good evening. the action item that I will be presenting on is a request for authorization to issue an rfo for request for offers on the light-rail station for affordable housing development. This is to provide the projects with vta santa clara county osh partnership and they are going through different phases ofdeveloper selection. Winchester is the last proposed site to this partnership. The measure a funding that the county is providing is time limited and we have it to coincide with the rounds. Last year when we requested this, we supported great numbers of housing and rapid rehousing on this site. Based on thatdiscussion, we have included the documents including winchester that provides the permanent supportive housing and rapid rehousing which are a requirement for measure a and the funding requires a minimumof 2% from rapid rehousing unit. This initiative also aligns closely with county measure a funding priority.At least 110 units across all four sites include housing. 35 of the units ill be for rapid rehousing affordableunits. Currently working on housing element which they plan to have adopted by next january. The housing element has identified our windsor site as the housing opportunity site for 75 units.7:52 PMThe winchester site is located in campbell with over 1 1/2 acres and for transit riders. The neighbors to the north is st. Lucie's church. And we have talked to them about the project and the nursery which would not impact their operations. The winchester station is the end of line station for us and will include redesign bus circulation as well as transit parking. It would be 100% affordable projects for households earning a median income and for rapid rehousing, permanent housing or a combination of those. In January of this year, wes hosted a community meeting for the winchester project and we have 51 community membersattending including council members and representative from supervisor ellenberg's office. During the polling of the exercise, overall it was a really positive and supportive meeting and a strong turnout from a younger audience. In advance of that meeting, we held 18 smaller meetings with community leaders and staff. The feedback we received emphasized the need for affordable housing, bicycle and for pedestrians and transit and community resources including safe routes for kids to get to school. Based on the board's approval, vta and the county would jointly issue a request to offer the county's equivalent of an rfp for the developer's qualified on the short list and 80% ami and 1/4 will be supported for rapid rehousing. This is a report that will be submitted by the office of housing.7:55 PMThis rfo is our current plan. we tend to return to the board with a recommendation of the developer in June and the dwofrp would -- developer would apply for the funds and seek entitlements and then return to approve the project in late 2023. We anticipate construction to begin in 2024 with completion later in year to 2026. Our recommendation is to recommend this project. We are here for questions. Thank you.7:56 PMWe will now take public comments.Noel, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, a lot of my family members and I attend the campbell church that is right outside and i'm here to say i'm in full support of the project and it's a great way for vta to capture all the value that they create around the stations and a great way to also provide more stable housing and to increase transit ridership. Thank you very much.7:57 PMEugene, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Good evening, board members. i'm in support of this transit center especially when i'm someone who uses this transit center to go to the 60 bus. It's great the transit center is across the street from a movie theatre and safe way. I would even consider living in this development. It would be easy for me to walk to get mygroceries done and without having to drive a car. So bring this project on, baby. Thank you.7:58 PMAlex, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Okay, next speaker. Adam, you May begin speakingwhen you are ready. Public speaker:Hi, i'm adam, I live in campbell and shop across the street from winchester station. This is a great way to make the winchester station more useful and providing housing to homeless here. I am very excited to have this project coming to campbell to keep it in this cycle and it's the lowest project in our inventory. I'm really excited to see this project come to campbell. Thank you.7:59 PMThank you. i'm calling on alex. Public speaker: this is alex shore. Alling on support of the motion on the resolution asking you to continue to allow the vta staff to continue on this pros an# project. They have to been involved in this project and we want to see this affordable housing for the vta board for prioritizing the housing on these sites. We would like to see as much affordable housing on these lands. I couldn't tellyou how much more is needed. We want to see higher projects for more affordable homes. We are hopeful this project will turnout that way.8:00 PMBlair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. Thanks a lot for this item. It looks like you are trying to include ami housing. That's a lot. It's really nice to hear. I think this is an idea of what mixed income can be. Thank you. Good luck and continue these efforts. With the gilroy transit centerproject, we were headed towards huge parking lots with single occupancy vehicle ideas, but that was really questioned by ourselves and thank you for that and rightly so. At the same time we are trying to consider the future of vehicle electric use and even biden talked about it in the state of the union address. Thank you for that. We are looking at hopefulness of the ideas of electric vehicles.8:01 PMNext speaker, please. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, my name is sergio lopez and council for the city of campbell. I appreciate the work on the community outreach on this site man many. I look forward to this full process. We are available as a resource should you have any questions. Thank you so much for your time and consideration of this project.8:02 PMThank you. our last speaker. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, my name isalley, on behalf of the housing coalition, but also as a renter and young person who has dealt with housing insecurity their entire life. There is a clear and regional need for more housing and we are doing exciting things and excited to see that housing will be affordable for residents and rapid rehousing and on a transitcorridor. Although it's at the early stages, this will bring great revenue for years to come. Thank you to staff for coming up with this comprehensive plan and we are excited to see this project move forward and looking forward to partner with vta on this, and I hope you vote in support of this project. Thank you so much and have a great evening.8:03 PMThat concludes public comment, chair jones.We will now close public comment for this item. Director jain has his hand raised.Yes, i'm in full support of the project. I was the only council member supporting the project. But one of the issues that came up during hat discussion was the long-term funding because it was only supporting two years of funding. Was that measure a funds for the support services?8:04 PMMy understanding is the county does the service cycles for two years. That gets updated. I know we have members from santa clara county and they can help verify that.All right. direc chavez?Thank you, chair jones. that is the right question. Right now we are providing services, I think it's 5-6 years. But we don't budget outside of that two year cycle. That's a practice that we have. What I would recommend is that the county through the county housing department do an agenda report to explain how we are supporting the components of it. Two other issues I would raise is we have a partnership with the housing authority that allows us to use project base vouchers so the rent and mortgage is paid in perpetrate perpetrate -- perpetuity for that use and changes in the medi-cal through cal aim that is going to allow us to have a more supportive services for that person meaning there is going to be a broader pot of funding from the state to be able to provide services. I think sending this agenda to the board is what I would recommend.8:05 PMThank you. director paul?I respond today that question. I'm sorry, chappie. I wanted to say that I was really excited about this andalso really excited to get the feedback, to hear the council members say that they appreciated the way you are doing your outreach, jessie, and your team. I just anted to acknowledge that and something we need to get much better at and as you are learning, that you are going to share with our other organizations trying to move forward with housing. Thank you.8:06 PMAll right. director?Thanks, chair. i'm just going through a checklist. I am a board member representing this area and I want to make sure that the other site is well represented and also observed. I do appreciate the council member from campbell who is also on the policy advisory committee for vta. I think this should track parallel about that sentiment. First on my list, can we get a confirmation that at least one of the goals of the project for a win-win situation with not just vta but office of supportive housing as well as the city of campbell?8:07 PMYeah, absolutely. go ahead.I was just going to say absolutely that we intend to work with the office of housing.Wonderful, great answer and the rest of what I would like to try to get at and making sure we are working with the city of campbell as well, right? To be sure that the proposals will be evaluated by the city. I do know that campbell wasn't included in that slide. I want to be sure that they are at the table when these proposals are being evaluated.8:08 PMI was just going to comment. we have had discussions with some of the council members. We will be asking for council members and city staff to recommend a community member from the city of campbell that we can utilize n our evaluation panel. We are hoping that provides a nice nexus of community based interest on the actual selection process and that's become successful at our other sites. You will hear thaton the other item from the community on the capital selection.8:09 PMOkay. great. this probably goes without saying, but can you please confirm that project will be complying with the city of campbell's process?Yes, that's absolutely correct. There was a slide earlier in joslyn's presentation where we outlined the potential timeline. One was a milestone of city approvals. So we do anticipate that this project will receive city entitlements.So you are baking into the idea that vta is committed to timely and thoughtful engagement with the city of campbell because of the nature of the timeline. I just wanted to confirm tat?We are absolutely committed to working with the city of campbell since before our community meeting, I would say we had a half dozen conversations with campbell staff and council members and would like to continue the dialogue for more feedback.8:10 PMWonderful. can we make sure that we don't have more points of contact from our agency than are neededbecause I think multiple points of contact to the extent that they are not necessarily eeded put a hamper on the ngagement process and are we making sure we are streamlining that in terms of our interaction with the city.To clarify, director paul, do you mean that there would be one contact from vta contacting the city of campbell staff. Is that what you are asking for?I don't want to put a crimp in the ability to communicate effectively, but if that can be done, great, if that can be done effectively, that's even better. So is that possible to get that down to possibly for vta?8:11 PMWe'll ake sure we streamline the communication so we are as efficient as possible.Wonderful. this is a fairly complex project. Can we stipulate to that?Are you wanting us to confirm that there is various iterations with this development project?8:12 PMYes. is that you have the existing structure there. And keeping it open and building around it and the request for offer. My hope is that that can be acknowledged with regard to the physical complexity of the winchester site when we proceed. Can you confirm that, please?Yeah, I think the site has some significant factors that we need to keep in mind as we move forward, construction phasing, retraining transit operations with the bus loop, there are significant considerations that need to be taken into consideration moving forward.Which will be reflected in the rfo, is that correct?Yeah, absolutely. we've been, I think joslyn May have highlighted this, but we have been doing a lot of coordination with internal vta team operations, engineering, really taking a look at what May be future possibilities. Of course, we would like to leave it open for developers to make proposals and we'll be orking with the team moving forward.8:13 PMWonderful. and my very last one and i'm going to package it to make it easier. I think this is basically the culmination of the overall points. Can you confirm a commitment to making sure there is a balance of program requirements between the three different agency parts of this project that being f course vta, office of supportive house housing in campbell and I will give you examples and as to the other types of potential balance of program requirements that would be benefits across the range would be, nd that would be a range of affordable housing and unit sizes, as an example, open space for each unit andwelcome space for the entirety of the project, pedestrian and bicycle and safety and security, we have the creek trail and the pedestrian bike trails. So hopefully we can get easy access to that and from the south ofthe site like you were talking about circulation but for various modes and multiple locations. Also given the fact that we were talking in the last item about electrical, not just electrical building and facilities, but maybe even using this as an opportunity to look into all electric buses especially given the really close proximity to bus circulation and parking and the residential areas that probably would also have the benefit of improving the air quality. I'm not asking you to do all of those, but just the concept of that to try to make sure that we are talking about a commitment to a balance of these various program requirements as gathered from the users and the stakeholders.8:15 PMYeah, I took notes on the list of items that you mentioned, open space, affordability, pedestrian and bicycle safety, and access, noise mitigation. I will say that we can work toward all of those and make sure that those are identified goals in the rfo as we move forward. The comments you made regarding electric buses, that is going to be in the purview of vta operations and planning. So, I just want to note that we May not have as direct control or guidance on that factor.8:16 PMFair enough. but I thought I would throw it in there since it seemed pretty immediate. Thank you very much. I appreciate that.Thank you. director paul, would you like to follow that up with a motion?I can move the item. I don't have the language in front of me. I can pull it up.Director chavez raised her hand.I was just going to second the motion.Okay, great. I will make that motion. I move we authorize the general manager to issue request for offers for the winchester transit center project in conjunction with the santa clara county office with the valleytransportation authority and office of supportive housing cost-sharing agreement for county measure a funded affordable housin affordable housing transient oriented development.8:17 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]8:18 PMMotion passed. thank you.Thank you.Paving # -- moving on to the next item. Moving on to the next item. Action item - authorize the general manager to enter into an exclusive negotiations agreement (ena) with midpen housing for a term of twenty-four (24) months with up to two six (6) month extensions for negotiation of the proposed terms and conditions of a long-term ground lease for a transit-oriented development project at the capitol lightrail station property. If agreement cannot be reached with midpen housing during the ena term, authorize the general manager to enter into an ena with related california.Good evening, chair and directors. Thank you for allowing me to present this item. The project manager and development are we me in case you have any questions. If # in the past several months, the board as heard multiple items with the county office of supportive housing. Collectively, we are offering four sites at capitol station. These grant offers work on our overall goes for increasing ridership, catalyze transientoriented development communities and investment in the surrounding station areas. Create long-term stable revenue, advance affordable housing policy goals. This is much needed affordable housing delivery in santa clara county. Whether the request for office whh is county terminology for request for proposal, we identified up to two acres for mixed use opportunities for the remaining portion of the tod site. We ask that proposals align with county measure a funding goals such as a minimum set aside at least 25% as the units for permanent supportive housing or rapid rehousing. We encourage thoughtful development, design,incorporating transit access while requiring relocation of bus operations and infrastructure on-site. I would like to point out a few items and image on your right and vta is working on a design phase on an off ramp at this location. The location of affordable housing has been strategically located at the furthest point tothe east on the site allowing for required state on the project. I would like to point out the vacant lot directly across from the development site, this is a site jointly or partially owned by vta and city of san jose. We've had some preliminary discussion with the city parks department regarding a potential future park at this location. This is a potential future community benefit with the city and vta can collectively workthrough build-out of the capitol tod site.8:21 PMThis is cindy chavez. I don't mean to interrupt but i'm recusing from this item. I was off camera and not interacting. So i'm going to leave now. Thank you.8:22 PMThank you.We received three responses from proposals. In particular the evaluation panel felt that mid-peninsula housing and related and past venture proposals. You can see they are a range of units proposed from 175 units to 206 units in an average median income target from 41% of median income. The proposal had a range of permanent supportive housing and rapid rehousing units proposed. And proposed that 25% of theunits would support permanent supportive housing and 34% of the units would be for permanentsupportive housing and 11% of the units would be available for rapid rehousing. All three proposals included ground floor retail ranging from 5,000 square feet to 9,000 square feet. There are a range of heights and densities proposed with mid mid-density peninsula housing. This was responsive to communityengagement and feedback we received. Proposed parking for tod from all three teams was one space per unit with parking utilization bay area wide. We did have some discussion on parking at anf and share thedata and report on parks and utilization within 1/4 mile of the transit station. The report highlighted in completed projects within 1/4 mile of transit. The 28% of the parking is not utilized. This data is very wide and include santa clara county nd 100% affordable housing project, similar to what has been proposed at the capitol station. I would like to note the city of san jose is in the process of looking at their parking codewhich May impact capitol parking build-out. Vta will work closely wi development on the development partner or parking solutions. Today we have 951 transit parking spaces at capitol, and during precovid time, parking utilization was less than 10%. In the event that parking solutions is necessary, we have the number of utilizing parking at the station that can be considered for shared parking. The next three slides are visuals from each of the three proposals and proposed by the peninsula housing. The unique feature of this as contemplated interface with transient oriented development phases. In the site plan graphics to theleft and upper right hand image, you can see the layout for future development phases and how the projects might integrate design wise in the future. The other unique component of this design proposal sit does not have a range for podium and this is for both the surrounding community, vta riders and residents to access the station area directly through the development site plan. This design element allows for agreater opportunity as accessibility for community place making elements. The proposal included a transitplaza, bike pedestrian and paseo and park and biking amenities. This slide includes the proposed site plan layout and architectural features. A design included the transit plaza and bike and pedestrian and paseo and a public art park. This slide represents the site plan and architectural design for affirmed housing proposal. The design included in this proposal art plaza and bicycle pedestrian. All three of the proposalsincludes the agreements for office of supportive housing and anticipated by the build-out of tod at the site ranges between 126 and 140 new daily riders fare box revenues between nnual - $180,000 per year. This states the number of model riders. All three proposals show a reconfiguration of the existing bus loops. Vta staff consulted with vta planning and to better understand the proposal and we'll continue working withthese teams throughout the future design and development phases of the poject. The evaluation panel fordeveloper selection included two vta staff members, two county office of supportive housing staff members as well as the community member panelists suggested by council member mahan's office. I want to knows that his feedback was really helpful during the selection process. After thoughtful review of the proposals, the developer review and responses selected this housing and also offered to work with peninsula housing to find this proposal and including rapid rehousing and permanent and supportive housing units, as well as including additional stations and access to improvements such as the sidewalk, avenue to the south. That is an updated recommendation from what was in the board packet. Based on feedback from our development partners, we have shortened the ena terms recommendation to not be more than 24 months in total. The recommendations from the board is to authorize the general manager o enter into exclusive agreement with ena to propose a term for housing development. Also included in the recommendation, if the agreement cannot be reached, that the general manager would be authorized to enter into anexclusive negotiation agreement with the california -- this allows the project to stay on track. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.8:31 PMThank you.We'll now go to public comments.Public speaker: keeping it moving is so important. Great job to vta staff for bringing this forward. Thanks.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair here. Thanks a lot for this item.With the electric car issue, it's quite a balance that we have to do. We have to not, we have to consider not just how to address single occupancy vehicles in our future, but also want to promote and work with good electric cars. That's the point of what I was trying to say. Thank you in the work that I think santa clara county is trying to do with that matter. With this issue of continuation of mixed income ideas, they areincredibly important concepts that ounds like worked out in la nd san diego, sacramento and the major metropolitan areas of california but not as much in the san francisco bay area. Good luck in your efforts toreally mix income ideas and the importance of doi and affordable housing. Thank you.8:32 PMEugene, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: eugene, silicon valley transit users.Just in brief, I echo the comments. Great job vta, let's keep it up. Thank you.8:33 PMThat concludes public comment, chairperson.Thank you. I will bring it back to the board. Director jimenez?Thank you, chair. I just wanted to express my support for the project. It is obviously in the city of san jose and in the new area that is now part of my district 2. I met with the applicant. I think it seems like a greatproject and I wanted to offer my support through the city of san jose process and looking forward to work with the staff as well as vta staff. Very supportive of the project. I think it's a great location and i'm veryexcited about what's to come. With that, I will move approval of staff's recommendation.8:34 PMAll rght.I will second.All right. a motion and second by director lee.Is that it, director jimenez.That's it, sir. thank you.Director constantine? shel8:35 PMIs that a trip rate generated?It gives us an output on total new income on an annual basis.I'm curious. is the model based on? What is the model based on?The model is based on the new densities that would be in such close proximity, anticipated ridership that comes with bikes that are within close proximity to transit, and then it applies, a percentage of ridership.Let's say 46%, and this is anecdotal. This is not precise, but i'm giving you an example right now. It says 46% of all residents who live there, would be utilizing vta on on a daily basis. And you would look at the charge and extrapolate that out that would be based on 100.8:36 PMThat would be base on?If I might. that is based on the gross income to vta. Fare box is the gross calculation to the shared cost and obviously more riders would improve that but the toll to ridership is a bump in that ratio. It doesinclude that in the rvenues. There is an additional benefit in terms f the riders and that is that offering transit has a very high fixed cost. What that means is one of the vehicles has fewer riders or more riders and one of the advantages of the tod is you get the amount of revenue but not on the revenue cost andthat does help with that calculation. Ut obviously given our size of our riders, changes the overall calculation of that, we'll have to do more projects than his one.8:37 PMI don't dispute any of those comments, but I didn't write down, but there was a dollar figure that was given, and it was estimated, and i'm just trying to figure out how that was arrived, how that dollar figure was arrived whether it was 100% fare box recovery that vta says would ride transit. I think that's a misnomer because our fare box recovery is so abismal.8:38 PMRight. what I would say is the model states how many riders and that gives you a capture figure and then the riders. It's listing our gross revenue and what is the bottom line in terms of deducting it because of the fare box recovery coming in. You are right. It's a top line number, not a bottom line number.Right, I would just ask if you ive more realistic numbers and that sounds pejorative and I don't mean to make it sound that way but I don't think it's fair with that percentage that we can expect 100% fare box recovery. I would like to see more realistic numbers. But begin, i'm not trying to despair the merits of this project. Thank you very much, chair.Thank you. director bert?8:39 PMYes, thanks. overall it seems like a really great project. I had a question on the parking. I think it was the early side. If staff can bring that up. As we all know, parking is a major economic driver on the projects. It was one that had the breakdown of the number of units and parking ratio. There we go. So, there it is.Under the third r is the parking ratio. We had three different parking ratios for the three different bidders. I know in the presentation you mentioned that we have surplus parking that could at the vta lot to have dual use potentially. Were these bidders all told a certain number of essentially vta lot spaces that they could assume their residents would utilize, or were they making their own assumptions on this?8:40 PMBefore, sorry, jessie. before we answer that question, council member peralez, do you need to recuse yourself?Yeah, thank you. I recuse myself.Member bert, there was no specific direction on the rfo about the number of units that any could anticipate utilizing. My comment in the presentation about that possibility was really based on the notion that we have a lot of under utilized parking at the site. So should parking become a factor where there eeds to be rebalancing or oking at some additional parking solutions, we do have the opportunity to look at shared parking. I know we do have felix here from housing. He May be able to share with us what his experience is with parking utilization and affordable housing if you are interested in learning more about this.8:41 PMMy concern is that the three different bidders made three different assumptions on the amount of on-site parking they need to provide which then drives what they can provide in other aspects of the project. And so we really don't have the three of them having an apples to apples comparison on how much parking they are going to have to provide. We are allowing them to decide that. I frankly don't know what is the right parking ratio. Other than whatever assumptions they can have about off site. I don't know whetherwe've looked at really active transit demand programs within these projects to drive down the use of vehicles. I know that we have a range on bike stalls and I certainly ike what mid-pen is doing there but this is a big part of comparing projects and it seems like we have different proposers making assumptions but it drives the cost in a big way.8:42 PMYes. I think that's factual and accurate if you look across the three proposals. Each and every section various based on the proposal that is submitted by the possess technology affordable housing partnership.They are giving us their best estimates of what will be ccessful at this site at this preliminary stage. Just based on experience, these things get fine tuned as we negotiate through the ena period. They start coming up with more schematic planned level drawings, more details to their proposals which we fine tune over time. These are representative of their intent and you can see their intent on all categories are slightly varied.8:43 PMDo we stipulate late a certain amount of ev chargers or ev charger readiness for that facility infrastructure?8:44 PMThe ev chargers within the actual building for the benefit of the new residents, that is governed by the city or jurisdiction that the project is proposing. We do share a best practices and vta guidelines for transitfacilities improvements. So, for instance if a project were to propose new facilities improvements for vta parking, we do have standards for ev charger percentages that we recommend.Okay, thanks. all right. I don't see any ther hands raised. We have a motion and second.8:45 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: yes, chair. the motion is made by member jimenez and member lee. [roll call] [roll call] [roll call][roll call] [roll call] is is -- thank you, motion passed. Thank you. Next item is information item - receive apresentation on vta's bart silicon valley phase ii extension project's disadvantaged business enterprise (dbe). (verbal report)8:46 PMGood evening chairperson jones, vice-chair person continu board members. This is a vta's bart phase iiprogram and dithe contract phase 1 and dbe goals and participation. Vta has established a dbe program for federally funded contracts. A requirement of the program is to establish agency wide goals every three years. The vta follows the goal setting methodology prescribed in the code of federal regulations. The overall goal established an effective for federal fiscal years 2020 through 2022 is 20%. The next overall goal will cover federal fiscal year's 2023 through 2025 and is due to the federal transit administration in august of 2022. If you bart phase 2 soul solicitations will be established in the goal. Vta is not constrained by the market area when engaging de for business. Based on federal genes vta, established the market area used for calculating dbe goals in its ffy 2020-2022. Some oare in this slide. The business outreach events in partnership with various public agencies, chamber of commerce, and community basedorganizations. The contractor contract activities will include outreach and public communications. Adequate staffing resources to meet the goal, technical and certification assistance to dbe's nd ste's, technical andcertification assistance, mentor property -- protege program, compliance with vta's project labor agreement, other activities as required. The contract for the goal assessment was 20% and the goalsetting methodology is as follows. . The industry codes referred to as next codes are assigned to each scope of work category. Using the applicable codes, vta has identified several dbe ferms within the market cal trans database. The number of all firms are identified for each scope of work category. The ratio of dbe firms to all firms results in the elatively availability of dbe firms for each scope of work category. Each scope of work category is based on the value in terms of the aggregate value for the actual work which results in the category weight. The weighted ratio is the result of multiplying the relatively availability of the category. Upon review and research of each dbe firm listed, it was determined to appropriately revise the listing due to conflict of interest, firms incorrectly coded in the database, firms unable to perform the actual corresponding work identified and firms no longer in business. Based on these findings, the goals were recalculation and had a different reduction and the final was ascertained as the final overall goals.This calculation was 35% calculated using the goal setting methodology. The following list dbe goals set at other agencies for similar projects. For bart phase 1, vta's office of business diversity programs set on a goal utilizing the previously described goal setting methodology. The dbe participation achieved was 15%.Vta's business diversity program objectives are to ensure non-discrimination in the award and administration of contracts create a level playing field on which dbe's can compare fairly for contracts, ensure the dbe program is tailored and accordance with applicable law ensuring that only those firms that have this standard and eliminating the participation of dbe firms and develop fms that can compete successfully in the marketplace. Our next steps are to establish goals for contract package 3 and contract package 4. Review opportunities to increase the market area in the development of the triannual goals and future contract goals and work with our contractors and labor partners with advocacy groups to further expand the available pool of resources for vta contracts. Some of the efforts and activities the office of business diversity are taking to ensure dbe and sbe goals are met, engaging and supporting the dbe community and utilizing prime contractors, simplifying use requirements and expand to dbe contractors.Vta's business diversity program is 3 designed and committed to providing equal opportunities for all businesses to be represented in improving our transportation infrastructure, providing all business diversityprograms with a myriad of opportunities to learn, engage and contribute with silicon valley's transportation industry and developing a strategic business diverse tree program that is targeted for vta contracts, receive certificates and grow their businesses. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.The interim business services program manager is with me and we will be happy to answer questions.8:55 PM> thank you. we ill now take public comments.Blair followed by bob. you May begin speaking when you are ready.Hi, thank you for this item. it's great to see vta is working on these items. Being from san jose, I know they have the same program for san jose airport. It started in 2014. It was part of the first days that I used to attend ublic meetings. It's really interesting work. Thank you. I'm interested in how the, I guess the hispanic chamber of commerce. They May be interested in these kind of issues. The city of berkeley are doing an overhaul of the entire city with programs. I think sometime in January they had pretty much a whole council session devoted to this subject. It was very interesting and formative council meeting.Good luck with this project. Thank you.8:57 PMBob, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: bob nu?ez. It was a great presentation. I want to thank you for meeting with the alliance and we are on the table on this very issue. We would like to ask the chair for an ad hoc committee toinclude some of the board members to actually look at why this program seems to be going backwards instead of trying to increase the minority businesses, it seems you are trying to lower the numbers being used. We believe that if you look at minority business consortium from what you are currently using, we can get to the numbers originally shown by this board of directors. We think you are going in the wrongdirection. E need to recorrect and go in the right direction.8:58 PMThat concludes public comment.Thank you the staff for the presentation. I always say there is three sides to a story, your side, my side and the truth. From this, i'm getting about eight sides of the story. So trying to create a process or put together a process to bring key stakeholders together and try to have a mutual understanding of what makes up these numbers, how we derive those numbers and what the opportunities are to grow andexpand these numbers. I am in support of putting together some type of ad hoc committee to bring the key stakeholders together. So I wanted to relay that to staff, that that would be my preference in terms of a path forward again to try to get everybody on the same page in terms of what the actual numbers should be. I see director chavez. Go ahead.8:59 PM> thank you. just a couple of comments I wanted to share with my colleagues. At the anf committee, we had a chance to review this. I think an ad hoc committee makes a lot of sense. I want to request that the ad hoc committee be able to work with the anf committee to be able to further dive deep in and then we can bring stuff back to the board. We were very interested in getting a presentation requested to have one at our anf committee in March -- that took a much deeper dive and particularly as it relates to bart. I want to raise a few issues that were raised at committee. One is i'm very interested in understanding how our dbe program really operates. I was frankly surprised to know that we had a third party vendor that hires vendors. So I want to understand that. I also want to better understand from our external partners andexpectations of our outcome. I was better at understanding with our partners and municipalities to create our overall momentum. What I want to share with my colleagues is one of my concerns with the report that we saw was that it felt to me that by not thinking about the policies and not just for vta, but as itrelates to other public partners, that we were were creating a downward spiral because we have less minority and women owned businesses that are getting less work and are then not able to grow, and notavailable and therefore we are dropping our percentages for what we expect for these small companies to be able to apply for our contract. So what I would really like to understand is what kind of leadership role can vta play along with the other public sector partners to strengthen and build the backbone of thesetypes of businesses. So i'm looking nto a much deeper dive to how we play a leadership role in turning thisship around. That will come to anf too. Chair jones, I love the idea of an ad hoc committee to dive in to work with a sub section of the board and come back to the board.Thank you.Director lee?Thank you, chair. I wanted to echo your idea about this ad hoc committee to do a deep dive as echoed by some of the speakers of the program. In terms of execution and transparency, I think we can use help in that committee to help fulfill that need. Thank you.Thank you.Director constantine?Thank you. I echo the endorsement of an ad hoc committee. I think it would be a fantastic opportunity especially with a project this size, to not only lead the county and this state in allowing minority businesses to participate in a project this size and really be a model for the est of the country. So I definitely also echo director chavez endorsement of an ad hoc committee.Thank you.Director peralez?Yes, I will echo that as well. I actually had a question in regards to the role that minority business consortium. I didn't see it in the report but it was my understanding that we did have a contract with them. Can staff describe what their role was if they had one in this regard?I can answer that question here. They were originally supporting in a procurement office and a dbe office to hold some of these earlier outreach activities. Now we are actually going to be putting them onto the project as assisting on the project outreach side that they would continue that outreach as they come on board and the contractors would have a liaison point as well and working with them on the community and what we would want to see lead out on this more. It is not in the original role they would have and would have a more expanded role. The contractors will continue to ire the prime throughout the life of the project construction. They are not going to have all of their contractors. We want to be sure we are partnering with them, helping them, supporting them and doing what they need and providing them direction to what are they need to go and look at. They will be there to support those efforts.Okay, I appreciate that. thank you.Greg?Mr. Chair, I would like to say from a staff's perspective, I think we would be in full support of an ad hoc committee formed because what you find with a dbe program is it is not an easy left and requires a great amount of coordination not just with vta but the entire community. So anything we can do to begin those efforts and reach and find ways to engage is really the only way something like this is going to grow andmake a statement within not only san jose but the entire region. So very much in support of it and whatever we can do to help that process, you can count on us to be there.Okay. I don't see any other hands raised and this was n informational item.Thank you for the presentation. We are on item 8. 6.8. 6. Information item - receive silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. (verbal report)Thank you, Mr. Chair. directors, good evening. We are going to start with bernice. You asked for this update sometime ago. We are going to give you the update today and then I will continue with my program delivery.Thank you, takis and chair and board members. I will talk about the program and why it was implemented and will talk to jkl consulting to give you the work they have done to date and ome back for next steps for implementing a business resource program. The business resource program is an environmental commitment and also something that we've incorporated into our construction and education and outreach plan for the phase 2 project. The focus of the business resource plan is to assist small businesses during the construction phase of the project. The external affairs teams in coordinating closely with the city of san jose's office of economic development. We just before covid hit engaged a firm and they did an analysis of the businesses along the corridor. They divided them into the businesses that was close to the construction, a primary and secondary group. We presented that analysis to jasoney and they have now started to draft a plan and j will go over the summary of that plan. You are on next. Thank you.> thank you, bernice. good evening, board. Jcl consulting group. We are a community engagement dbe with expertise and planning business assistance programs specifically for transportation constructionprojects. Our experience includes subways and light rail and includes work that has been referendum in losangeles and including the projects phases 1, 2shgs # 2, and 3, the regional connection project. Purple line extension extends from korea town through beverly hills and little tokyo and underground through thefinancial district in downtown la. The crenshaw project provides a connection to los angeles county county -- lax through the african american court order. I have a background at the transit agency and worked through la metro and this is to see projects through completion for the programming will also be beneficial.As you see below, there is a list of background information that we have collected and are collecting and that includes work with these vta small business task force. We have conducted workshops and severalinterviews one on one. That group includes the members of the city, office of economic development, case studies, business assistance, interviews and anecdotal information, surveys. Previously it was a small resource study with economic development study. And consultation with transit agency. So what have we heard so far.What we've heard so far will be synthesized into a plan that is comprehensive, but yet scaleable to be able to go up and down with the project demands. Here are the four elements so far that we are displaying.Signage and way finding, vta sponsored shop local marketing, small business development, potential additional resources, such as business interruption fund or micro grants. And talking about safety first and navigating through a construction zne. It also provides an opportunity to celebrate the region, to showlocal landmarks and local businesses to include them in that. I also want to make sure we maximize the vta areas and sound walls to make the best use we have available. Everything is coordinating on a calendar that we can look at in advance. A shop local marketing. I see bullets on that. That is a program that is intended to increase traffic, walk in traffic and web traffic. Everything is shifted towards e-commerce and to promote and support businesses in line with construction. So as we ramp up on construction, we can work on some of the marketing activities there. We will review all the channels there including those on social media, etc. To have a multi- multilingual campaign. And this refers to an effort tocollaborate with existing resource providers that are in the area that provide business assistance.Obviously, you understand that it will have to be established as an organization that is already working in the area now with multilingual staff and able to go from door to door from lessons learned on this project.The last bullet relates to additional potential resources on the business interruption and fund or micro grants. Based n findings from the recommendations and the background that we are doing and input from the progressive design builder where npt is not issued yet, we will come back with an analysis and the impacts of some of the activities to bring it back to you for further consideration. So next steps would include here at the bottom half of the slide. Meet with the contractor to discuss means and methods,research, potentially funding sources for grants and loans and analysis for ecommendations in the summer.I believe that concludes my talking points. Back to you, bernice. Thank you.This shares with you the activities that we'll be doing in 2022 related to the program. We'll be meeting with the contractor once they are on board to get the means and methods and funding sources for the grants funds and come back to the board later this summer to present that final analysis and recommendations.And in 2023, for preparation for construction anticipated to start that year will get a request of authorization for the resources for both the grants, business interruption fund and the personnel needed toimplement the program. We'll have that staffing, and then we'll develop the business resource plan branding collateral and way finding to initiate the support for those efforts and the launch of the program.I'm happy to answer any questions you May have.Thank you.I don't know if takis --I don't know if anyone has any questions on this . Then I will move on.I don't see any hands-on that item. Please proceed.This is my page which I update you every month on the procurement of our contracts. A couple of quick updates and then we'll focus on the next page. By the end of this month, we are going to put on ur systems contract. The cp 1 contract. As you know we have the ranking contractor for the tunnel contract.We are in the middle of negotiations. As you can imagine on a contract like this, a lot of pages, a lot ofdesigns. We have been working on it and we are optimistic that we are going to be before you sometime in May to ask you to award the stage 1 of this contract which would be the initial step to construction of our program. Then, this month, we are going to put out the contract for the santa clara station, newhall yard and one main line for the program. So we do have a good short lease year and as I told you last month, we are going to start right after that, they are one year practically of the selection process to get thisbefore you again for an award sometime next year this time. As you know, on the fourth contract, the station's contract we are pausing now. We will discuss that and we are waiting for the tunnel and systems to go through and sometime in 2024. We will have the update. That's the quick update on theprocurement. Now the next page, no. 10, on the schedule. Because of what you heard from the press. Iwould like to again remind everybody. This is the framework of our program. Our program is to bedelivered with five packages. You can see the five packages. The four contracts, and the last package is the bart piece when we tell bart the project is completed, the project will come and staff with the test andintegration and the assurance check, and some of you remember what e were on and trained perpetrators, all th-- operators. And we have received from the contractors in order to fix the schedules based on thisframework. What do we know today? From this package, we know package no. 2 that told us from 72months to 82. We did so. Also they told us to plan for 28 months. Out of the five packages, we know that duration of the two. The federal government is waiting for assets as you see during the period of the letter of intent to get at least two more packages. Right now the duration on the system package is 79 months.We'll see what the contractors tell us. And to get the input for the santa clara station. Now the duration is 65 mnths. The contractor might tell s to do 67 or 68. When we get all this, then we are going to trabuco canyon schedule. Our schedule on a program like this has 25,000 line items of connections we do. That's why we'll produce the final schedule which we are going to include in our agreement and we'll let the public know when we are going to open this. Now the question is, are you going to do it by 2030? In my instinct right now, maybe not. Maybe we are trending a year later, maybe 10 months, 11 months, I don't know that precisely, but my instinct is a little bit outside of the month. With that, I want to remind you, this is not the schedule b you the -- but the framework of delivering our program. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.Thank you, takis. we are going to take public comments first.We have blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thanks a lot for the item.Thank you for the words of reporting. I think planning a system in la through korea town worked, a few decades ago, someone months ago at a public meeting, you said he example about how la had a funding plan where people like mayor liccardo and others at vta can look at how projects can be funded in the future for san jose or santa clara county. And so it was hopeful to hear about. Thank you. It was mentioned some sort of construction starting by 2023. I hope that can be accurate because it means a lot to ourselves if we can actually start construction. Thank you.That concludes public comment, chair.Thank you. I will close public comment for this item. And bring it back to the board. Takis, the graph for the framework, if we have an indication that we are going to receive the dates and the framework from just a transparency and representation standpoint, would it make sense to incorporate those out years in this framework to at least as you provide the board this information, at least have a representation for potential for the project extending out?Mr. Chair, ike I said, I would like this practice to get a couple more input here. We have the tunnel contractors, we have from bart. I would like to get the systems and the cp 3 to santa clara and when we get those, we call it general revenue schedule. When they say how do you feel about 2030, and right now, my instinct is probably beyond 2030. How beyond? I don't know. A year, three months, nine months, Idon't know. But I will come before you when we come with two more data points.Well, the one thing I ask if you can commit to completing this project in my lifetime, that would be very appreciated.Mr. Chair, and mine as well. [ laughter ] thank you.Thank you.> I don't see any other hands raised. This was an informational item. So we are onto the next item. The last item on the regular agenda item 8. 8.8. 8. Information item - receive an update from sb 129 joint labor-management committee. (verbal report)All rght. good evening, board members. Can you hear me?Yes.Great. i'm sorry. I had to transition from office to my home and i'm in my car. I am pulled over. I wanted to report on the committee that is still meeting weekly on the iscussions taking place about our community work plan that is highly focused on employees mental health initiatives, training and organizing and providing resources to deliver on those six priorities that we have identified in our grant application. We are happy to have at the table the deputy county executive and the assistant district, residentpsychologist, and our avorite care team members from -- [lost connection]Bandy, you are cutting in and out.The final documents needed to execute the $20 million grant being administration by the california board that will be January 1, 2022 through June 2024 which means that's when we can ex-spend the money.This part of deliverables, that is the number of mental health days for our employees and when the time is out for trauma whether they are out behind a wheel or cab. It's that time they can take extra outside ofregular sick or vacation days. I think this is all really important especially as we approach some of the upcoming dates that could trigger trauma and we are planning the one year remembrance and reaching out to the families and start stories and conversations about the various ideas we are having on our fallen.Other progress being made is our peer training. We are working on the calendar for this month andworking on programming that we can offer our employees. Als since september, providing a resilience training for but operators that have yearly technical training. This is now included in their yearly training and about 400 operators have received this and the response is overwhelmly positive. Since the last meeting, we met with senator cortese staff to provide information and concerns about employees who May need help dealing with stress or trauma. We have a slide to show the updated time lean on theorganizational culture and climate transition effort. Last week we finalized the short list planned for next week and we are still on track to bring the final award recommendations to the board in april. That's it. I'm happy to answer flea questions you May have.Thank you, brandy. now we are going to public comments.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, thank you. I think I have mentioned earlier either at a ga meeting or meeting tonight, the work at the seiu at this time with the contract negotiations have been really interesting for myself and I think can be really helpful and valuable to theneeds of the atu. The work of the seiu with the vaccine issues and teachers union in san francisco andoakland, is more than the vaccine process, but public safety and I find credible value to you at this time.Thank you for this. And to quickly offer to my previous comments, it's how -- can we do construction within the next year in 2023. That should be of interest to ourselves. Thank you.Our next speaker, jp, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hello, this is john from ate. Regrettably it had some issues and chosen not to participate in the rfp concerning organizationalculture and climate transformation. I wanted to let the board be aware of that and we invite any board members to reach out to us at -- atu to discuss this matter further.That concludes public comment.Thank you. director hendricks?I wanted to go ahead and reach out to jp and talk to him tomorrow. He's got my number.All right. that's only comment. This was an informational item. So no need for a motion. Onto the next item which is other items for item 9. 1. 9. Other items referral to administration I don't see any hands raised. 9. 2.Chair, I believe we have director chavez.Thank you. I was actually going to ask staff if they could reach out to member pat bert to talk with himabout the opportunity to create an environmental impact framework for decisions hat the board makes in the future. I thought it was an exceptional idea. T probably needs a little thinking through, but i'm raising that up as an item of concern for staff.Thank you. I don't see any other hands raised. All right. Are there any announcements?I don't see a hands raised on that. We are on item 9. 3. This is for those who requested to speak on item no. 3 but were unable to do so based on time constraints and those who would like to make comments on items 9. 1 and 9. 2. You have one minute. Do we have any hands raised?No, chair.Okay, we'll close item 9.3. we are now on the second closed session. We'll be discussing items 7. 1. A, b, c, and d. X, 7. 1. D was deferred. Are there any members of the public that would like to address the board on these closed session items?> yes, chair, we have blair. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. Blair beakman here. Can you hear me?Yes.Thank you. I have said it a few times and will say it again. The work that I do with accountability andopenness for the future of technology nd data collection, it's incredibly important and helpful and hopeful.It's got so much home and part of the future of the sustainability of community in our future. It talks about the ideas of peace and open democracy and community democracy as ideas of peace. That is an amazing -- especially considering the times we are in right now. I hope ou can consider it really carefully and it can be of help to families at this time as I always try to say that there can be hope for our future and hopefully can be a help in how you talk about it tonight, thank you.All right.Clerk: that concludes public comment.We are now closed to public comment. Please oom your mic and video. I will see you in the closed session room. To the public, thank you for attending the vta board meeting. We will go o closed session now.