Good evening, everyone. if I can ask the chapembers to come to order. Welcome to the meeting of March 5th, i'm very excited we are going to start the meeting by administering the oath of office to bob nun eaez.5:38 PMIs mayorness can come forward.> [ applause ]5:39 PMThank you very much. now we are going to do our roll call.> board member roll call.Board member jones, liccardo, mcallister, miller, board member nu? Ez, board member rennie, chairperson chavez.5:40 PMMadam chair, you have a quorum.Thank you so much. for those who are able, would you please join me in the pledge of allegiance.America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.Now i'm oing to orders of the day are there any abstentions from colleagues? Seeing none, we have a motion and second. Bob nu?ez. Any questions? All in favor say, 'aye'.5:41 PMAye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously. We will now go to awards and commendations. This next item is in recognition of 2019 employees of the year. Will read the biographies.Accepting on his behalf is john, coordinator and president. [ applause ]Germaine gibson is operations award winner of the year in the operations maintenance category. Mr. Gibson has worked for over eight years. Not only has he served as an exemplary operator, he's also been an instrumental success in jwi partnership between vta and atu. He currently serves for jwei and also makes sure he can do his best. Congratulations to jamaine gibson. The employee of the year.5:43 PM[ applause ]Thank you.[ applause ] our next honoree is tracy crenshaw. [ applause ]Tracy crenshaw, assistant board secretary, an employee of the year in administrative category. This will mark ms. Crenshaw's 23 years with vta. In that time, she has helped countless individuals whether they are board members, line staff or members of the public. Her colleagues and team members both current and past describe her as effective nd unflappable. Her team value is a great work ethic and professional and strong qualities qualities. Congratulations to tracy crenshaw. Supervisor of the year. [ applause ]5:44 PMLet's give them one more let's give a round of applause to jamaine and tracy. That's fabulous.5:45 PMOn item 2.2 a resolution of appreciation for Mr. Richard tran. He's not here.Item 3. is public comment. this is for items that are not on the agenda. Each of you will have two minutes to speak. Once I call your name, please lineup.I'm going invite up monica melon, scott, andrew kaun. You each have two minutes. Please come in any order. Those of you that have a little bit experience, please come up and show the rest. I'm going to invite roland, jessica, cole and blair. Public speaker: hi, my name is monica. I'm ery happy to be here o encourage you to vote for climate change and objectives and targets through these ghg emissions. We alsosent a letter of request to silicon valley climate action and sierra club, sunrise and students at deanza. We are very appreciative of what you have done so far. Thank you.5:47 PMPublic speaker: much has been enacted since the last meeting since I was active. Please send warnings about the need to state an emergency. We made history together. As the first public transportation board to do so. But one must ask the ever calming question of what now? The old saying, says that one sale is to sizzle and to quote a famous ad, where is the beef? Well, I my friend, I have spoken to this board on the local and policy reasoning behind our recommendations to this board. About how buses and light rail are able to get the switch from these green forms of public transportation and away from polluting and a value and need for all green bus fleet that makes picks up per stop. Thus e have sold to this board the beef and still more is needed. The board's declaration regarding the climate crisis has no bite without a follow-up action. Therefore we need to set up a study session to talk about our climate change action plan and how are we going to get our action going to enact policies that take back pollution and carbon away. A study session needs to figure out how to preserve, restore and expand our bus and bike routes to do away with pollution on our roads. Our board needs a commitment to solve the climate crisis and keep that promise tous all. A better future for u. Thank you.5:49 PMPublic speaker: good evening, my name is andrew cain for the schools. I have been working there for three years. For those of you who don't know aca we run 250,000 school employees around the state with 10,000 in santa clara county. We have our headquarters with approximately 100 employees at the san joselocation and we have a field office in santa clara. I'm here as an individual because I have not yet gone toour board of directors about the concerns of our members and staff about the failure of the bart service bef. E before I get into those concerns, I want to praise vta and staff for the bus routes that has allowed our employees and friends to ride. They are low-income. Whatever this board can do to benefit publictransit. It's a direct benefit to our members. Personally, i'm one of the many staff who are long distance commuters from the east bay. I bike to amtrak and emeryville and ride the amtrak and ride 35 minutes ago. Folks, that takes me nearly two hours. I'm exhausted. I'm ready for bart to open. Whatever we can do to assist you, we are happy to do it. Hat meanings if providing legal services, we are ready to do it. But you probably have enough lawyers involved. But if it means calling congress, we are happy to help.5:51 PMThank you.Welcome. public speaker: my name is jamie, a junior at saint frances high school. I want to thank you for declaring a climate change emergency last month. This is the first step. We need to follow up with decisive action. I would like for to you set up meet with vta. The use summit sounds like a great step in the rightdirection, my concern is that not all members will be present. This will allow the public to discuss concerns to iscuss concrete and realistic solutions during the youth summit. I think this study session will be greatto study ideas and to discuss current concerns that are preventing public transit from expanding. My final request is that you plan this meeting so it doesn't happen during school hours. My school is very interested and we are very interested to come to the table about the urgent climate crisis. Thank you.5:53 PMWelcome. public speaker: good evening, my name is kevin catela. I will like to address this board aboutsome new changes that you instituted at the end of december. I want you all to know that I know what you did was smart, a smart idea. You think you are going to get more people riding the buses? No way, no way.Because you have number one # ruined the 23 for me because of the fact that it no longer goes to valley fair. You messed up my connection between the 60 and the 23. And there is a lot of other people that I know of that told me the same thing that their buses that you have messed up that really served the people. And you need to do something about this. Thank you. Because you just, you cannot keep makingchanges like this and you are going to have more people riding the buses. It's going to go down. Dership is going to go - public speaker: hi, everyone. The biggest threat to our public health is coronavirus. Defeatingit will be very complicated. I hope vta will do more than monitor the situation and follow the proactive transit agency and enhancing vehicle cleaning to this global containment effort. Compared to the coronavirus threat, the situation in downtown san jose is a very simple matter. Why hasn't a solution been found. I mentioned this to joe lean bradford on the 18. She told me she's already aware that the platforms are a risk but the two agencies are involved. I assumed that vta was responsible for the platform safety.So I followed up on our conversations showing the edge of the slope. I also contacted san jose's department of transportation and publicly commented at the last two meetings of the committee fortransportation and mobility at the last meeting I was assured that the minutes would be placed on the last agenda. I'm disappointed for all riders and for people with disabilities. For people tripping and makingriders safe for navigateing the platforms and attracting people with low vision who avoided it altogether are certainly well goals. Thank you. Public speaker: good evening, i'm cameron from the park area. It's great to have part of my team that are neighbors out that way. We are hoping to see 65 come back with an a little shuffle and some money. I really hope that you can follow onto your proclamation with a real study session that has some meat to it as the previous speaker mentioned and available to us before the youth climate summit occurs April 1st. Thank you very much for your consideration.5:57 PMPublic speaker: good afternoon, my name is kaylene. I'm part of the youth movement and climate change team. I'm grateful that you are declaring a climate emergency and to ask you to set up a study session todiscuss how you will be combatting the climate crisis before the youth summit. I would like to add on that it's very frustrating sometimes to see how this is not taken with urgency or situation because it is ourfuture. Thank you.5:58 PMThank you. welcome. public speaker: hello, i'm the representative for the silicon valley democrats. As the bay area regional director. On behalf of my generation and those after me, I think you need to eclare a climate emergency. And we are showing that we are leaders for climate change and we ask you to set up a session to combat the role on our climate crisis. I ask that you set up a meeting with the youth so they can advocate for ideas at the youth summit. Thank you for your consideration.5:59 PMPublic speaker: good evening, scott largent. I met a gentleman down a couple days ago. Fred henderson.He is with santa clara county and he's a mental health peer worker. He showed up at the starbucks and the ight rail area. We have only so many of these county workers. For every 200,000 people, this is the onlypreventative measures other than at the point, when I say them, it's those meth heads. Up and down the light rail and I say this a lot. I don't feel safe, I don't feel comfortable. I need to take ublic transportation.There is a warning on the vta that is a warning center in the mornings now that there is no regular people on that vta. It's all meth addicts, people going through psychosis there. It's a scary environment. We need these people in downtown saint james park, we have the demand here and I won't why nobody is doing anything. You need to can tony tolles, she's not doing her job and people are not showing up and i'm veryfrustrating, video after video, meeting after meeting. I want downtown cleaned up. I love public transportation. I'm tired of smelling poop on there. There is no bathroom there. It's like pay to poop money. If you don't have money, you don't go to the bathroom. It's all over our buses. It's dirty and nasty.I'm confused. I really am.6:01 PMPublic speaker: hi, i'm judy young. I would like to ask that you can ask the outh how they can play a role iabout climate change at the youth summit. I would like to talk about what the system of transportationused to be like. We had an excellent public transit system. There is a documentary on how thetransportation system started to dismantle. You can go on taken for a ride. It's less than an hour documentary an eally excellent. The subtitle is u. S. History of the assault on public transit in the last century. But it serves as an example of an excellent public transportation system. I also want to read another comment. Why does america have the worse public transit in the industrialized world andfreeways. We can ask other countries, especially uropean countries for excellent public transit systems. It's not that it can't be done because it's being done in other industrialized nations and in the earliest 20th century in this country we had an excellent public transit system. Again, I want to say the name of thedocumentary is taken for a ride and you can look it up on youtube. Thank you.6:03 PMPublic speaker: good evening, board members. This is eugene bradley. I want to thank my colleaguesmalcolm for getting everybody together and having vta declare a limate emergency. While it's nice and all, let's back it up with some action including increasing bus and light rail service. One way to do that is you hold a study session on the weekend with the public where we can attend on a weekend. We can talk together about what vta can do something at least about climate change and one obvious answer is to increase bus and light rail service. I have been coming since 2001 and i'm frustrated with all the servicethat vta has taken away the service over the years and this is becoming like los angeles where you have to drive to do anything. I have to spend a few thousand dollars to keep n automobile because the bus service has gone. Let's change this with a study session where the whole public can attend and what we need todo to combat climate change and move to solar driving. Thank you.6:05 PMPublic speaker: to prepare for conversations to people of local communities around the sfa area and state.Please be considering how to be open to the ideas and questions in something of chr extension from merced to tracy or even a second express rail from bakersfield to tracy. There would be then they would use an ac train and bart train. Talk to the officials about these possibilities and what can even be a simple rail line from merced. For all of us to be aware of these ideas and other existing options should beimportant to better community trust and understanding. As a community for years now, many have been working towards the ideas of good human rights and civil rights. It's a process that serves everyone. I hope this report on the santa clara county and the chr will work to reflect the ideas of humanity and that bra report can be a good example that others around the country will once respect and emulate. To conclude, to again remind you there are many existing options and ideas for the future of chsr that should be important to more openly defined for better community trust nd understand. I want to thank you for your efforts in what you are trying to work towards in better accountability with the chr project. Thank you.6:07 PMI'm not going to accept anymore cards for public comment. Roland, you and suzanne and then we are going to end the public comment.Public speaker: i'm -- I want to thank you for declaring a climate emergency. I'm very grateful to supervisor cortese for the referral and lso the city council has begun the framework by council member. As a climate activist, i'm still haunted by a recent photo of many horses that died in australia because of drought. Horses seeking water were also found dead or dying at the water hole. There is a 30 year lagbetween greenhouse gas emissions and their effects. Even if we stop all emissions today, something like this disaster is probably in california's future. The drought is caused by the climate crisis is alreadyimpacting our farms and endangering our food supply. This is a climate emergency. I ask the board move as quickly as possible. I urge the board to set up a study session asap before the vta youth summit inanticipate to discuss how vta can play an active role in combatting the climate crisis. The vta can have a huge hand from reducing carbon emissions. To lead the way for the country. - thank you. Public speaker: good evening. I'm going start with some really good news. The good news is that for the first time in 20 years, we now have time transfers between the blue line. You should see the number of people making the connections. T's amazing. The problem that google does not know this. So trips that could benefit from thisconnection don't show up on radar and google is sending transit drivers to santa clara to one of the many bus lines to diridon. The really bad news, it's all down to two things. First the vta increased from 15-250 minute to frequent run m 20 and they broke the line between downtown and san jose. Last but not least, the 181 fills up. I told them to make a connection to the ine and nobody uses it. The total time wasted by the latest improvements is 30 minutes after what is now a three hour trip between san jose and san francisco. It took me twice as long as it would take to drive. The situation is now so dire that google is recommending taking a caltrain if you want to go to oakland.6:11 PMWelcome. public speaker: hi. I'm susan butler graham with mother's out front. Thank you for letting me speak and thank you for declaring a climate emergency. We mothers are very concerned about the future for our children and grandchildren. Like others have said, I want you to take a leading role in our county and see how vta can play an active role in fighting the climate crisis and set up a study session to do that before the vta climate youth summit April 1st. Thank you.Thank you very much. I want to thank all of our public speakers specially for coming and coming with a solution and also staying within a time line. I love all of that. So we are now going to move on. As you know we can't comment on public comment. So thank you for that and we'll figure out a way to respond toyou. We do not have an item 4 on tonight's agenda so we'll move to ommittee reports. Welcome, marty, here to provide a brief report. Welcome.6:12 PM5. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter)Good evening, chairperson chavez and members of the board. We received a briefing from its independent compliance order jenny nown as mdo, this marks the kick of 2019, measures. This is supposed to be completed by ngo in april. Our staff will consider logistics, date, time, venue to conduct the fiscal year 19, 2008 measure hearings as usual we'll keep you abreast of future reports and when that is happening. Also with the February 12th meeting t cac is honored in receiving highlights on the impact of climate change. A very popular topic these days. Lastly, I would like to mention our on going recruitment efforts. We welcomed ron and another new member marcia, who is backed by the committee this week and the evaluation panel composed of myself, staff liaison and board delegates continue to review applications and we have one vacancy left to fill. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:14 PMThank you, marty. are there any questions from anyone? Thank you, I appreciate you taking the time to come. Thank you very much.So we are going to then move on to -- we don't have a policy advisory committee. So we are oing to move on to 5. 3. This is the standing committee chairperson's report. I believe, you will provide a report later when we go through the regular agenda? all right. And for the governance and audit committee, we just had a very interesting meeting. We discussed the performance evaluation and asked for us to bring in dditional help to support our efforts to stay on time and support our senior staff. And a revised workshopfor the standing committee on the board of governors enhanced items and reviewed timelines. Finally staff provided us the information for the new daudit general. Actually staff did. That concludes my report. Any questions for me?6:16 PMOkay, now we'll go to our advisory chair eport and now we'll move to the consent calendar. This is items 6.1 through 6. 8. At this time, if there is any member that would like to take any item off the agenda.I would like to pull 6.8 and 6. 3.Mr. Mcallister?Yes, I had a question on 6.2.If that could be answered without pulling it.Go ahead.On 6.2, there is a line item that states advanced transportation technology. I asked staff prior to give them a heads up that I was going to ask this question. Would like to know what advanced transportation advanced technology you are talking about?6:17 PMWhat advanced transportation technology are we talking about?Madam chair, we can respond to that.Good evening. my name is casey, chief and program delivery officer. So that project has to do with looking at some of the issues with the town of -- we are looking at all types of technology that we used to dealwith issues that he town is dealing with to cut through traffic. Some they tried to test as a test pilot themselves. We are looking at things on the local roadway ystem and the freeway system there as well. Itcould be information, the town themselves have reached out to ways and some of the app businesses. So, at vta, we've also recently gotten the ability to provide edits to waze as an editor. That's an ability we have in terms of things we can do.6:18 PMSo what makes this advanced transportation technology versus normal everyday transportationtechnology?Because some of the other things have to do with some of the signal system, improvements that we made in the town and providing information to travelers. The town is going through a process to upgrade their system and what they are doing. All of those things will be taken into account in terms of trying to smooth traffic through that area and making sure that traffic stays on the freeway and doesn't go through town.6:19 PMThe reason I ask is that is because we are trying to get an innovation going with vta and trying to ove forward and trying to develop it or encourage it or implement it. When I see things like this, i'm trying to get a baseline of what staff considers as technology or innovation to move frward. That's why I asked thatquestion.Larry? a very brief comment. I'm wondering as we go through this process, can we perhaps be thinking about this in terms of the possibility of it being a pilot program to cut through the traffic that most are dealing with and if we can pull est practices as we go through this processes that we might be able to share would be great.6:20 PMYes, we have a working group that's part of the advisory committee. So those are avenues that we can explore to share the information that is learned through this project.Thank you. seeing no other comments, May I have a motion? We have a motion from glen, a second?For the entire consent calendar.We have a motion and second. any further discussion? We have one public speaker. This is blair, this is on consent regard the consent calendar. Public speaker: 6. 8, the minutes, to speak to the passage of vta's green resolution. Thank you for this work. I think many people have felt many things missing. With good vta along with decent attempts to understand and follow important new ideas with accountability and public policy, I hope we are all trying to reestablish at this time how vta can create its own specialexistence to make-up the 12 body vta committees. And to speak to what I felt was made clear at a very recent bot meeting and the city is trying to make clear at this time for themselves as well, it's my understanding it is local south bay cities that are in charge of purchasing and placing traffic stoplighttechnology. I thought san jose was giving itself a pat on the back and they were often making advances in traffic flow. What I felt was more than just test runs along a street or two. To also remind stoplight trafficcan also offer a fairly good auxiliary surveillance. This is good minimal practice for our future. Thank you.6:22 PMThank you. seeing no other public comments, we are closing the public hearing.How do I go about registering a no for 6. 1?Right now.Great, i'm registering a no on 6. 1.Okay. all in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? that passes with two recusals from the mayor and john on one item. Thank you. I appreciate that and appreciate the focus on the questions. Now we'll go to item 7. 1. Information item - receive silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update.6:23 PMWhat i'm going to do is ask staff to make a presentation. Then i'm going to the public and then to my colleagues. If you want to speak to this item, this would be the time to fill out a card.Madam chair, thank you. we will make the presentation.Madam chair. we have few pages of presentation for you tonight. This is the four topics I would like to cover with you and the board. The schedule and the critical milestones that is one of the updates and the financial profile as requested previously. On page 3, this looks like a schedule. The word I like to use this isthe framework to get us there. I would like to take you quickly through this. As we said many times before, this is a resolution and we'll share with you how this will work. The vital systems, the safety sensitive systems which have to be the vital systems like the train control, must be in perfect state for service. Weare going to continue working on the power changes and will continue working on the train control changes. The first diamond you see there is the removal of the train control discrepancies. I'm pleased to tell you, this restriction is not anymore valid. It has been removed by the supplier and the engineer of the train control system. The corporation. For that, we have a green check on that. We are going to continue with the remaining of testing and I believe next week, bart is ready to start the advertisement of the jobs on the labor process. I am 99% this will start tuesday. We had our weekly meeting yesterday in oakland.Then after that, sometime at the end of march, they are planning to start the new operations. And they are going slowly, one or two trains in its direction and double up full service back and forth like the regularservice without passengers. Now, while this is going on, we have a deadline to prepare the documentation for the state of california process called cpuc safety certification. By law, by general order, that paperwork,that documentation cannot be sent out before 21 days for opening passenger service. If you ask me what i'm watching now. I'm watching the labor process and how that will unfold for the next few weeks and watch very arefully the documentation put together for the certification, the two milestones. This is a age which I would like to take 20 seconds to share with you to monitor the temperature of our work. When you see a lot of items on the red square, it's not good. You eed to see a lot of items on the green. For that, this is a week's old foursquare matrix and we update this every wednesday. I am very optimistic hat the next time we see you there will be much less items on the red and much more on the green. Just for tonight's presentation, I would like to take you to bullet no. 3 on the red square. It's all revenue requireddiscrepancies. One big one has been resolved. That's the restriction removal for this train control in the station platforms. Moving to page 5, jorge will take you through quickly. I want to show you something new. If you see the icon to the bottom left of the page that staff used last Thursday to brief their board.Now we don't have two leafs and three leafs. They have a different one and this is one leaf. We are going to continue using our own bart chart with jorge and dennis before took you through.6:29 PMThank you. the primary point is is that we are very close with the line to go ahead. This number you see onthe 296 to go in the category a were the ones affecting us for the revenue service. That number as I have described earlier at board meetings, that isn't necessarily 296 different issues, many of those are one issue at multiple locations. We have as of this week now a very firm schedule from commitment from the contractor to close 3 everyone of those open discrepancies. So it does not impact any accelerated programthat bart will be executing. So we are very closely coordinated. A lot of these 296 open discrepancies areassociated with changes, not all of those changes are affecting many of the restarted bart activities. The description of the resolution process fully supports the chart that you saw, the framework that is on page 3.6:30 PMThank you, you asked, I think before you even hired me, I was at this meeting and one of you asked where are we with the budget on the project. Here is where we are. This is the best update I have. Trishna is responsible for updating and she can talk about it. This is the last forecast of our budget on the project we presented to the federal transit administration. And this is as of the end of last year, ecember 31st. I am going to update this and share it with you as soon as we know the new date. The reason? Because everyday goes more cost we incur in order to know where the actual line items is. Having said that, I don't want to leave you with any sensitivities whether or not we are going to need more money. I am very confident based on my review the last ten days and krishna and I went through and jorge to leave he budget.6:31 PMKrishna, could you turn on your mic? Public speaker:Good evening, when we began this process we started the budget with the administration. It's was for $2.1 billion in 2012. We continued to track the budget. I'm happy to report that we are within that forecasted budget. At this point in time our budget and estimate are the same and we will continue to monitor thisand as we have nearing the revenue service, we will give you our final projection. Happy to report that these numbers are on the basis with fta and the project management oversight consultants. They were in our office going through this line byline and we will continue o 3 share this with them.6:32 PMExcellent.Madam chair, I have a couple pictures here which connect me to the work going on on page 8, 9, 10. Page 8, the purpose of those two pictures is to see the automatic train control and the complex of the track switches and lagging and the traction of our equipment. On page 9, it's something which is very unique to this project and I thought the board would like to have these. They call them acronym rings through thedetection system. I am not aware of another system like this in the united states which goes for almost seven miles. What's significant about this is a lot of you know we have intrusion control devices in many applications. What's significant about this? Two things are very significant. The length and this protectionsystem is directly connected to the bart control center. In case we have a derailment from the road, the passenger bart line automatically he train control pulls the breaks of the train and stops passenger service.This is federal requirement, and in the beginning of the project, it was a cost benefit analysis done by vta engineers working with bart whether or not they should build 6. 6 miles of wall or clues to this technology.The federal government signed up to do this technology. I know a lot of us can't tell you that was easy tobe tested and go through operations but it's tested and now going for operations and now running for eight days for that major system. It's well done. The last page I gave you here in addition to the icon, the c puc general order. From the general order here, it's a very complex. It's really complex and very laboriousproject to get the certification from the state to run operations. I will give you a couple quick items to give you an idea of the small details of the certification is going through. No track, no station. Look at the details where they called the fire marshall and everybody else. That's my presentation.6:35 PMThank you. before I o to the board, i'm going invite two speakers.You can come in any order. public speaker: now, allow me to speak on the fact that I do believe we need to declare a climate emergency, yes. But, but i'm going to tell you that we do not need bart to san jose. It is becoming oo expensive. The cost of it has gone too high. And we need to and I for one am tired of coming to this board and telling you that you need to -- that about all the problems that I see with bart to san jose. I mean you guys don't see it, but I do. The rest of us do. We see all the cost. We see you are draining good money from that could be used better used to fund our buses and light rail than funding bart to san jose. And I ask you again to please consider doing that rather than doing this bart to san jose. Thank you.6:37 PMThrough the chair, could we back up to the slide no. 6, please. I do have a comment on --To slide 6?Yes.> I do have a comment on the price slide if you want to bring it up. I think it would be useful to have an aging report to know what roblems have been there longer. Some have been there for two yars. I thinkthat is really good information but I really like the way you have it now. Slide no. 6. I want to bring to your attention. If you look at 10 and 20 so far and if you add up guide ways and stations, you end up with $550million. If you go down to category 80. That's a major problem. That's a disaster that has to be addressed before we proceed with phase 2. The other point I would like to bring to your attention is that we have two sets of books here. This is fta books. Last time I checked there was $800 million and people need to know exactly where we are. I only have one question. It's where were you for the last three years when we needed you? Thank you. Thank you very much for those comments. May I ask if there are any questions from the committee. I will start with glen then to sam.6:39 PMYou just turned it off. that's why that wasn't working.Thank you so much. for having a specific date having this framework allows us to understand essentially a date for a date and that framework allows us to go ahead and go through. And the other thing is the open screens # discrepancies, that means we no longer have the disputed discrepancies. If there is open service and open list and there is not a big backlog we are trying to get through?6:40 PMThat's correct.Thank you. that's a fantastic project we are trying to get done. The next thing, for the next meeting, we go ahead and publish information in advance and try to get it out to the public but then we are a week behind. I would like us to go ahead and publish what we have a week in advance, but for the actual nextmeeting can we let staff come in with the most recent information they have to go ahead because on this timeline it would be helpful to help us better.You are good?Yes.All right.6:41 PMThank you.Mayor?Thank you. I know there is going to be a lot of postmortem and we have a lot of work to do but one area I hope we can focus on intensely is when the great process of this project is that we have remained under budget and not the best time to do that is during a recession. The greatest cost was for services an we are over a million project on over budget. I hope we'll do a deep post moto -- post motor em and how we get there.6:42 PMMy understanding is that coming up next month, our chair and vice-chair will be meeting, I hope it's not a surprise to you, chair. [ laughter [ laughter ] will be meeting with the bart chair and vice-chair. Is that correct from whom ever wants to reiterate?Yes.But I do think it is important that we get the working group back together on a regular basis whoever it isrepresenting this body and that body because it's obviously not just phase one that we are talking about.It's moving into phase two and how we will continue to coordinate and receive joint updates. I think again,receiving those leading up to the December deadline last year were very helpful for both bodies. So i'm happy to hear at least that that will happen in a smaller capacity for next month, I hope we can get the actual working group together.6:43 PMSo, why don't we, I know there was a reason that didn't happen. I don't know what it was. I will ask staff if you can get back to us with some options for dates. That would be good. I don't know why?It was scheduling issues.We couldn't get everybody. anybody in particular?6:44 PMOkay, we will send a letter, I would say requesting a discussion from our board. I appreciate it. . Thank you. I was going to lame glen, ut now I know that I can't. All right. Are there any other questions? thank you very much. I want to isay how much I appreciate the report. We will keep this tem on the agenda for questions. If there are questions off line about the process, I would encourage you to reach out to staff because they are very good at giving tutorials. Thank you very much.Thank you. jorge and krishna, we really appreciate it. On item 7. 2. This came through admin and finance.6:45 PMThank you. the administration on finance met on February 20th and forwarded this to tonight's regular agenda. This is highlighting significant items and trends on revenue expenses in attachment a and packetcompares the actual budget. I'm happy to report that as of December 31, 2019, revenues were $800,000 above our project while $200 below budget estimates. We have the budget management here to provide a brief report on the variances.Great, thank you.Good evening, board members. so, I will just dive into it. The second quarter of fiscal year 2020 continue to be good for vta's budget as chair carr mentioned earlier, total revenue was $898,000 above budget andmeasure a sales tax are operating assistance and investment earnings. They are partially upset by fta andmeasurement payment obligation. Sales tax revenues for 1976 half cents were pending receipts from the committee. The actual numbers came in afterwards and they are basically in line with what we have accrued. On expense side, we were at $10. 2 million under budget because of favorable variance in labor, materials, securities and paratransit and unfavorable by levels of reimbursement. This includes $7,268 budget implementation that the board adopted last November for the collective bargaining agreementsthat were agreed upon between vta and the free bargaining units. Staff will continue to monitor revenue expense levels and continue to provide updated projections. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:47 PMGreat. any questions from my colleagues? yes, mayor.Yes, I appreciate the report. i'm trying to understand how fares and transit are so positive, nearly 7% when our ridership is staggering and dropping. Just look at the most recent report from January 20th is better than than we have seen but negative in terms of bus. One general category is light rail. I'm trying to understand how our variance ended up being so positive. Did we anticipate rate increases.6:48 PMMadam chair, if I May respond to that.Yes, thank you.It's predominantly due to some of the special events e had at the stadium and we received revenues for that. That was the primary reason the fares were higher and there is a fare increase.Okay. and on the caltrain variance, I know we love to give money o caltrain, a great system, but I always understood those numbers to be pretty fix. How is it getting hit with another bill?6:49 PMThat was in fact we had a discussion about that and the committee as well. And it is just the timing for the overall year we would be exactly where the budget is that the board authorized. It's clear, it's $15. 8 million a year and we categorized that by 12 each month. So at the end of the year, the actual is exactlywhere the budget is.Thanks a lot.10.8 for operating and 5 for capital and operating.Madam chair? I had a question on the labor due to staffing variances. I know every city has that a lot. Is that a high number for you, a normal number?6:50 PMWhat we have vacancies that we intend to back fill. So I believe as the fiscal year progress, that's one of the main items that myself and my colleagues will focus on trying to make sure we stay on top of the trends.But is this, okay what is your normal staff openings unfilled positions?Well, with the job market right now in the bay area, basically full employment, less than 3% of unemployment. Our colleagues are working very hard to try to back fill a lot of vacancies.Usually we run about 8-10%. okay, that was the question. Thank you.6:51 PMAny other comments on this item?So we have no public comments on this item.I did have one. I want to highlight for my colleagues, I think there are three line items that we need to watch on lines 7, 8, 9 or state and federal operating grants. All of those are down. We don't necessarilycontrol those things, but those are areas that we are going to have to don't watch and see what that means because unfortunately they are relatively big dollars budgeted as well. That's what we need to make sure everybody is aware of and what that potentially means down the road if that actually is a trend that is oing to continue.Thank you very much for that.All right. seeing no other discussion, May I have a motion, a motion from raul and second from glen.Any further discussion? hearing nor seeing none. All in favor say, 'aye'.6:52 PMAye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously. We are now moving to item 7. 3. 7. 3. Action item - authorize thegeneral manager/ceo to execute a contract with the county of santa clara - office of the sheriff for supplemental law enforcement support services for certain vta properties and service areas for a base contract period of two (2) years, from April 1, 2020 through March 31, 2022, and a base contract amount of $25,160,878; with four (4) additional option periods to extend the contract through June 30, 2026, for a total contract amount not to exceed $84,066,266.Before I turn it over to the staff for the presentation bushiness staff, general counsel would like to speak on this item. [ off mic ]6:53 PM[ off mic ]Thank you. ha ha sam. He was giggling over there. We'll turn it over to angelique.Thank you honorable chair and members of the board. As was outlined in our staff memo, supplemental law enforcement services are above and beyond our primarily law enforcement services that are provided by local state and local law enforcement agencies. Currently they are provided for vta under contract with the sheriff's office and that contract expires at the end of this month. According to last month report, vta met with law enforcement and submitted a report and minus the station one and the berryessa bart stationcampus location 2 and milpitas campus 3. In august of last yar, vta notified the interested agencies of its intent to enter into exclusive negotiations with the sheriff's office on all the locations 1, 2, 3. While vta wasable to come to agreement with the sheriff's office on locations 1, it was not able to come to an agreement with locations 2 and 3. So the following is just for station 1. Accordingly, staff is now authorizing to execute a contract that memorialize a term that vta and the sheriff's office has for station one. This is to continue to respond to calls for service at all of our light rail stations, transit centers, park & ride lots and bus stops and river oaks and light rail and bus yards which there are there and downtown service center. We recommend the authorization because the sheriff's office has 30 years of experience providing lawenforcement services for our transit agencies specifically ours. In that experience, they have responded to calls for service including incidents involving arson, sexual abuse, assault and battery and domesticviolence, probation and parole violations and robbery and threats of suicide. The station is well versed in local transit agencies. Which is very important. The sheriff's office has also done an amazing job with partnering with law enforcement agencies to conduct exercises to ensure appropriate responses levels ontransit. And they have also partnered with federal and state law enforcement agencies to protect vta, its employees, and its customers from terrorist activities. Finally the shelves deputy hassen ---en insured thesafety and welfare of our employees and customers.6:57 PMThank you. do I have any questions? Bob?I'm relearning everything. so if you can tell me what happens. If somebody else sat in this chair and asked these questions, I apologize. To the other two sites, I don't know how long he negotiations are going to take. So if you do this one, for all the other sites sites, what happens in the meantime at milpitas and sanjose.The question has not been asked. Thank you for the question. Negotiations for location 2 and 3 continue with the next proposer in line. We are still discussing with the subsequent proposers for each of those locations. That is still under discussion.6:58 PMWho is going to provide the service while you are under negotiations?Currently it's the sheriff's office but from this going forward is our allied universal private security since we are not in service yet, this is a viable option for us.Do you have any idea how much longer you are going to be in negotiations?That's a question better to the other proposers on this particular location.Let me just say this, bob. I did press director, our ceo, ms. Fernandez to put a deadline on it because I share concern about those, but to be frank with you, there are, I mean part of this is really up to the agencies that we are working with and how quickly they step up. You know and engage. So in any case, if we don't have a resolution to this, in my mind over the next 30 days, i'm going to be asking staff to come back with options.6:59 PM> so I can only speak for one of those agencies and it's not san jose.By the way, only because you are here. He would have done it if you were.You better believe it.Go ahead, bob.I will say that we will do that in the next 30 days if that's what's holding us up is our participation.Given the negotiations, i'm going to ask that we do not have that conversation here. I'm sure evelyn is going to jump on us in a minute. I just wanted to share that with you all that I made that request because that's something we have to bring back to the board.I agree. but what i'm looking for because different than berryessa's, ours, we have and correct me if I am wrong, ours with the light rail and buses already there, there is a little bit more activity.7:00 PMYes, i'm going to stop you to say what is before us now is not any of the other contracts. So if I could, if we can just focus questions, if people want to ask more pointed questions, I would recommend that you speak to angela directly. That would be my preference.That's fine. I just didn't know how much had taken place before.Great.Larry, raul and the mayor.I apologize that I didn't get this question to you before hand, but multimodal locations, is it all caltrain park & ride lots throughout the caltrain system that is now going to be covered by santa clara county?For the caltrain lots, at the park & rides I think there is multiple jurisdiction there. The county assist, but I believe it's san mateo county.7:01 PMYes.So that was my understanding as well including the lots at morgan hill and gilroy. If you call 911, they want to turn your call over to san mateo county which is ridiculous and two hours away. But we turn tocalifornia park & ride lots. Is there a change or can we look to that change? I would prefer not to have morgan hill and -- being routed to san mateo county.I think because they have responded to calls for service if there is a need for aid from the sheriff's office.That has occurred in that instance.7:02 PMOne other recommendation I would just make I think this is an item I think is worth referring to the staff after this meeting because it's an on going issue and issue of safety and issue of cleanliness of park & ride bus. Let's do this as a referral to staff and in part, if that's okay with everyone? Okay.Raul?This was just trying to maybe answer bob's question. The local jurisdictions always will have 3 the responsibility. So for instance, if there is no contract in place which I don't think anyone of us want to havethat be the case, but if it was, it would be every city jurisdiction it was in.Thank you for that.Sam?Thanks. I would also be really interested in pursuing the line that was raised. I think it's silly and I know san francisco county feels the same way. With regard to the sheriff's jurisdiction and turf here, I think we all know and see that it has become harder for a lot of transit riders in parts of our cities we are seeing a lot of methamphetamine use. I just want to understand the sheriff's responsibility over that line, what is it like for that I typical deputy when something is going on 20 yards away as opposed to 50 yards away fromthat light rail stop? How is that defined and I know there is multiple jurisdictions, and and so forth. What does a deputy understand to be their job?7:04 PMCertainly, if it's something we are witnessing and something while we are there, we are going to handle it.Anyone from the sheriff's office, a deputy has the jurisdiction throughout the county. And even though it's not necessarily on the light rail platform or something, we still are going to take action.Okay.So that would be for doing a crime. What if it's a situation where you just, you are an officer and you see someone's got a bull bulging in your pocket and could be a weapon and casing and nothing's happened yet and you are a block away. Again, how does a deputy view that?I think just like any police officer would. If there is something they see even though it's not right there in their specific jurisdiction and if they have that reasonable suspicion where they will make that stop or the person needs to be contacted, they will do that even if it's not in their jurisdiction. They will go ahead.7:05 PMIf it's in plain view, within spitting distance, it's going to be something the sheriff will respond to.I think that any law enforcement officer would do anything like that and I don't think it's unusual. It's really the decision of the deputy who is there at the time whether or not hey think that that is an action they should and could take.Okay, thank you.Mayor, I will add one other point to that which is that the methamphetamine work team that you are participating with which I really appreciate, the sheriff's is also participating in it because there is a line ofwork that we are going to engage vta too as we start to address it. We'll have ore information.7:06 PMMayor hendricks?This is really what you are asking for a continuation essentially of the services that have been there. I'm just curious on an annual basis, if last year the same services cost us x. What is the incremental annualcost of what this contract does to us?I'm going to ask franklin hwang.I just need numbers.Last fiscal year 19, we spent $10. 2 million on this contract. And we budgeted about $11 million, so we are at 90 plus percent compared to our budget.7:07 PMIf we are 10.2 last year, what are we now, 10. 3?It's not to an exceed amount which is about $12. 46 million.It's flexible ecause there might be special events that you May have to deal with?There are also positions that have been line item at top step to make sure e can accommodate whatever level of eputies are placing in that position. The chance of them all being top is slim but we want to be prepared to cover that cost if necessary.It's nominal year to year growth?Correct.That's what was trying to get to.Do we have any other comments or questions, Mr. Mcallister?7:08 PMWhat other agencies have responded to the rfp?For this particular rfp? can you respond?For this particular location 1 it was just the sheriff's office.Thank you.Any other questions on this item? May I have a motion for approval -- i'm so sorry. Blair, thank you for reminding me. I'm going to take our public speakers. Blair and scott largent. I apologize I didn't take you sooner. That was my mistake.While we wait to come to the mic, I apologize. I neglected to introduce our folks from the sheriff's office.Lorie smith and ken bender.Thank you. I apologize I didn't do that either.Blair? public speaker: thank you. On this item, the vta contract renewal with the sheriff's department. I would like to once again ask and to remind of the surveillance practices we are all connected with. I hope you can consider what can be a more open review policy of 90 to 120 days for the controversial apps andsurveillance apps placed into big belly smart trash compacters. We seem to be better in what we can considerate controversial apps and what can be well established ideas for practices. Aopr data collectionwas 180 days, it can now easily go down to 90 days. In a few years it can go own to 45 days. To learn how to do this, does not have to be a regulatory treadmill. It's everyday people learning together at a time forcivil rights data. The evolution at the vta has shown there can be a simple joy and good learning to practice ideas of data collection in terms of open sustainable democratic policy. This formula can speak to both equity and equality and interestingly also offers good organization and efficiency along with the ideas of sharing and peace that can ask how to leave for its competition. Please start to consider how to develop the vta's own good new technique tech beginnings of more organized policy and with ideas of 920 review policy to question the big belly apps and surveillance apps. Thank you.7:10 PMScott, welcome. public speaker: all right. Good evening, everyone. Scott largent. I do support theextension of the contract for the sheriff's department. You know, i'm not picking sides between law enforcement agencies. I do like the training that they have in the courts and the jail and when they are implementing that with the mentally ill and the addicts on the street. It's not like they have kid gloves onbut they act btter. If there was some kind of training they do and do some not volunteer work, they need to be paid. But maybe they can do more in the streets. When i'm in downtown at the metrorail, you know that I talk about this a lot. I fear what is happening when the fbi and the fta is not communicating witheach other. What happens when they are supposed to do their job. I don't know the park ranger down at the park anymore. This is no disrespect to the sheriff's department but when they have that court contract and light rail contract, can't they handle that one park down there. You have one at vta and another vta stop. It's kind of weird with all of these agencies involved and you have hell's kitchen down there and all they are doing is smoking meth. You know what's going on down there. I was hoping sooner or latersomeone would start paying attention and utilize my hard work for three years and get some help. I really want to take my daughter for her visit at that park there. Thank you.7:13 PMThank you. are there any other comments? Did we get a motion? May I have a motion?I move that we authorize $84 million for laugw enforcement services.We have a motion and second. any other debate on the motion? All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously. Thank you for that work. We are now going to move on. I moved my script. To item 8. Thank you. This is our general manager's report. I'm going to let rob tell you where she was?7:14 PMYes, thank you very much. our general manager is enjoying her new grandchild. Moving on, all the publictransit agencies within the country actually across the world, vta continues to closely monitor the coronavirus. The safety of our employees and drivers are most important. We wanted to share with youtonight the measures we are taking to help out employees and drivers stay healthy during this time.Angelique, chief of system safety and security will speak to our coordinating effort of public health and hyde will talk about what we have done so far and what we'll continue to do. Lastly, our communication'sservice officer will respond. And I want to acknowledge some of the leadership team for working with us collaboratively and cooperatively to ensure our riders and employees are safe. Thank you for that a.7:15 PMThank you. for everyday, we get new information about the virus and can be somewhat unsettling. We'll tell you what vta is doing to ensure our safety. I would like to reiterate, that at vta, the safety of our employees and customers is our top priority. The steps we are taking include staying informed, making sure our system provides the least amount of risk for exposure and keeping our employees and riders also informed. Some include daily phone alls with the regional operational area agencies where members of thecounty health department, the state office of emergency services and community development commissio7:16 PMAnd information from those abroad. And we are also engaging in regulate participation with phone conferences to discuss transit agency preparedness related to this virus including a call with the united states department of transportation, the cdc and transportation security information that will continue tomorrow morning and we'll continue to update our blog and board members with any information we learn. With that, I will turn it to heidi samuels with more ecifics about the steps we are taking.7:17 PMHi, steps we are taking o minimize exposure. Any public space creates an opportunity for exposure to respiratory viruses. Which is important to review the best practices for cold and flu. Per the cdc, it is not dangerous at this time, we have gloves available for use if desired an monitoring to ensure that our stock levels are high ecause we understand that at times like this, there can be some completing of at stores.Vta buses and light rail vehicles, are clean on pull in each evening. This cleaning, service workers remove dirt and debris and address immediate issues and wipe down areas like the fair box and steering wheel and frequently touched surfaces. Buses are detailed and deep cleaned every three monthsch we are looking for ways that we can wipe ticket vending machines, tvm's on a more frequent basis. The same cleaning solution, one part bleach, 10 points water for disinfection. For operators that want to feel more secure about an immediate cleaning of a work area they are going to be in for the day, they can pull up to thestation and have the items right there where they can wipe down their steering wheel and the items that are in their immediate work area. Although it is not recommended for healthy people to wear masks, employees including 3 operators May wear their own mask in service. The cdc does not recommend people who are well to wear the face mask to protect themselves from respiratory diseases including cov 19. Face masks should be used.7:20 PMI understand ow absolutely important this is and how this virus in the news is causing stress and anxiety.But we could not stress enough for individuals to take responsibility for their health. That is consistent with all the messaging that we have. Our goal is to keep our employees and our riders informed on how best tostay healthy and prevent exposure to the virus and here is how we are doing that. Vta is receiving on going updates on the internet and in the field, customer updates are being shared through various channels on our blog and media and website. Just recently we were recording information in spanish and it is going to be on multiple languagesa in vehicles. And we have a wifi page and they will get that message.The information we are sharing is absolutely consistent with what the cdc is sharing. Wash your hands frequently with soap and water for 20 seconds. If you can't do that, use the alcohol based sanitizer. Cough in your elbow, don't touch your face and stay home if you are sick. We are trying to stress that along and consistent with everyone else and using that with our other transit agencies and peer organizations. I'm checking with them on a daily basis to make sure they are safe.7:21 PMThank you. lastly we are making sure that our emergency operations center is ready to activate if there is an emergency declared in the region so we can provide the services that are needed. We are also aware of the most recent information rom the county health department to make sure we protect the most vulnerable population.7:22 PMThank you very much. are there any questions just about this piece? I'm more asking because I know people are getting a lot of information.Thank you so much and we are dealing with it at the city level and information we are getting from the county. Could you, I thought I heard you say you are cleaning the buses every three months?7:23 PMWe are doing a deep clean every three months.We are cleaning them every night when they return to the yard. We sweep them down, if there is any immediate concern areas where there is obvious soiling, we'll take care of that. We'll wipe down the insideof the windshield, wipe down the fare box and steering wheel of the drivers area. If there is debris that needs vacuuming.That's for the obvious, but obviously the virus isn't obvious. It's an invisible risk. Are we cleaning down the seats and the handle bars and the railings and all on a nightly basis?Not on a nightly basis. we don't have the staff and resources to be able to address wiping down all hard surfaces every night.7:24 PMThat's a concern for me nd I know that we are short n staff, but i'm wondering if just being able to provide the wipes right 3 now that we are on alert just like at the grocery stores where you wipe down the shopping carts only because hat i'm hearing from doctors who have study the mutation of the viruses, theysay that is the best line of defense. And whether it is here or not it's no longer in doubt. It's here. And I -- it's not going to stop at 20. It's really how we slow it down. And when we talk about mass transit and how people can't get away from those close spaces and shared spaces. They can't get away from it. We can talk about a lot of information and personal responsibility all we want, at the end of the day if people don't have access because they are isolated or people don't depend on mainstream media, they are not getting all the information that we are so blessed to have available to us, then we have to do whatever we can. I think it's our responsibility to be able to make sure that we at least make accessible the tools that aregoing to be able to keep us safe and the easiest are those hand sanitizers and those alcohol wipes at every door, at every place. I will tell you even in mexico, when there was a anger of the cholera outbreak, it wasreally interesting because I was in mexico during that time. The hand sanitizer was in every single bathroom, restaurant, in the smallest village. I was so surprised. They were able to contain it. They had an outbreak and wasn't what they were anticipating it. It was widespread everywhere. I have not even seen that even for the small towns that I visited. For the people in mexico, they are still there in fact. That's a practice they use. Anyway, if we can't clean them because of a lack of staffing and we can't staff up, having something like that I think we really need to consider.7:26 PMI think that's a really great idea. The one point I wanted to raise is that, you know, as we move through this, what I really do think is a health crisis, the one thing I want to remind folks is that we are starting todeclare emergencies. What that's going to mean is we are also going to have additional resources. What I would just like to recommend, we have a longer conversation with our staff about what we think is going to be available, and I also want to let you know that on tuesday, the board of supervors is going to do anacross the county response and we'll be inviting vta to participate n that. Partly to your point, one of theguidelines that we have right now is that we are wiping surfaces down where we have lots of people multiple times. Not even nce a night but multiple times a day. I think that's a minimum bar for a lot of ourpublic entities. When I say minimum, I know you can't do that ever night and heidi, you have to figure that out. But my point is we have to figure out how to get there because we know the virus s staying onsurfaces. Anyway, with that being said, I want to say we'll make some resources available and we'll have a deeper conversation and we'll prep for that meeting on tuesday. I think this is an urgent matter and what I would really like to see is us getting feedback by the next day on what is the gap to be able to meet that standard. We need to.7:28 PMSo i'm going to mayor liccardo.I just wanted to add because you just triggered a memory that we know how it's transmitted. It's not air born, but rather it's in drop form, in other words through coughing or sneezing. But this is an interestingvirus. If I cough and I sneeze and droplets fall on this desk, it stays alive for a week approximately. The average life span of that virus is about a week. And so it's resilient and it doesn't need a live host for it to stay alive. Someone comes by and sits at my desk and picks it up.7:29 PMAll right. so mayor liccardo. and then I apologize, I usually want to let them finish their report but this one I thought was super important.I was trying to figure out what milan and tokyo are doing where they have had serious amount of infection.I guess mulan was operating pretty much empty buses, it seems not very helpful. I'm just wondering, arewe seeing cities shutting down transit at some point and do we have an idea of what that threshold is?With the exception of china, I don't think the other countries are impacted in shutting down because they are keeping them running for people that need to get to the hospital. But you are right, the ridership is way down but they are keeping it available.7:30 PMDoes that maybe force us to consider maybe do we start running different routes to get to medical centers? Is that something we have considered?We'll be considering many things as this progresses and that will be one of the things to consider.I will add and not to make this more complicated, but we'll have to take more resources from lots more entities and what you have is the buses from the paratransit and whether or not does it make sense for seniors to continue to do senior lunches in the same place. There is actually a lot of moving parts that we'll have to take apart.7:31 PMWe are shutting down our senior programs, meals on wheels and there was a lot of discussion on reducing one particular line about a decade ago. I can imagine now it would be that kind of service do we want to really focus on increasing it someway. Thank you.We'll make sure e follow up on that soon.Thank you.So, jus one thing, since you brought up paratransit. I was talking with andy burke earlier because paratransit has unique exposures between the operator and the passenger, so we are going to have to and tomorrow in fact, we were planning on talking about making sure that he communicated with our vendorto ensure that we have a clear understanding of what measures they are taking for their vehicles and their operators to ensure the right thing is being done in that area as well.7:32 PMThank you, heidi. all right.Next on my report is automated service alerts. Vta tries to get the most current information especially on days we have service iact on canceled trips. Brandy will provide a report on automated service and how we keep informed. After that, i'm going to introduce marie gilroy who will talk about what we are doing with the operator shortage we have been having.Thank you, rog.If you will remember, last October we presented to the board about the promise that we made to work to get more accurate realtime information 3 into the hands of our riders with regards to the trains and buses, not making their scheduled trips whether that was because we had fewer operators to work that day or during an unplanned service day. So this was being done in a very labor intensive way and op's analysisand customer service team have now automated the canceled trips. As inconvenient as this can be, it's very important to provide this information very timely. Now transit riders can go to the transit app can seethis published to help lan accordingly. To put this in perspective, we have over 36,000 riders using this app this month compared to the 23,000 riders using it a year ago about this time. That's a 56% increase in mobile app usage and we continue to promote the app because it really is putting that realtime information in their hands and another way of getting customers informed. Even though it might not be the best of news with the bus showing up, they know they can make arrangements to catch the next trip and we are always looking for ways to improve that communication. We are standing by for questions and anyquestions you might have tonight.7:34 PMAre there any questions?Just based on the image that i'm looking at here. Is there additional information that comes out that does say when the next trip will be?These are published when there is no trip showing up. So you can, you know that your trip is coming if there is no canceled trip pblished. So anything --Just go back to the default?Correct. everything is operating normal unless you get an alert like this to tell you that your trip is canceled.7:35 PMOkay.Thank you. bus operator vacancy?Hi, my name is marie gillary jones manager for vta. At the 2019 board meeting I talk about how this could vary. This creates a gap between a number of budgeted positions and positions that are actually filled. To close this gap, we are increasing the number of operator classes from 3 to 5 in addition, we'll be working with this group to mitigate and they will begin April 1st. In addition we have 51 candidates who will receive offers for our next trainee class. This is scheduled to begin April 29th. Thank you.7:36 PMGreat. any questions about that?We are going to move on to nafta awards.Thank you, madam chair. i'm pleased to report that vta's get on board won first place for the special awards for special needs category. Get on board vta was held April 28th last year. We offered free rides that day and saw a 15% in ridership. We had a press onference with silicon valley conference and employees from vta. We also had dozens of employees and children participating as they visited vta on bring your child to workday. Congratulations to our communication marketing and career services and all the employees who made that day possible. Thank you. On another note, we hosted a lunchtime symposium to honor black history month. Our speaker was board chappie jones and an author, teacher, rapper and a poet. This was one of the many events that with vta we celebrated diversity, culture and to promote diversity. This month, we'll be honoring women's history. We will also celebrate cesar chavez day at the end of the month. Next on my report is the garment affairs up the and the chief of the state office and part of vta registered program.7:38 PMBefore jim, I have one comment card on item 8. 1 hich is the chair's gm report. Eugene, come on forward.Thank you.Public speaker: good evening, once again, board members. Eugene bradley. Thank you to vta for its on going on filling it's transit operators. Is vta thinking about hiring someone even part-time to give thehomeless people that sleep aboard on buses and trains the so-called bus 22. This is for people since they use vta, which they shouldn't have to, they should have a little pride on what they ride and help clean upeveryday and that might decrease the gap that chair chavez is talking about. Also another idea since you have jeff rosen on speed dial. One idea is to consider having youth and those on probation to clean up the bus for this work detail to at least filling up the gap for how often bus are cleaned. I have been on transit where buses are deep cleaned once a month. Having these buses leaned every three months is not very good. Speaking of things not very good, it surprises me that we are having this meeting in the midst of the county declared we should not be having any large gathering. I know you are not the shark, not hockey players, but the county has declared that you should not have large gatherings due to the coronavirus.Thank you.7:40 PMRoland? public speaker: so, i'm going to be very brief and I need some advice. When i'm sitting on the light rail minding y own business and a homeless person stands in front of me and # coughing right into my face is essentially assaulting e with a deadly weapon. So someone can provide me some advice other than basically forget all public transit, I would appreciate it.7:41 PMI'm comment on a couple things. I don't want to give the impression that we do not have hand sanitizers.We have them every 15-20 feet and the bus yard and yard ocations including the buses where we do give has seen sanitizers. We are taking all the precautions as I said earlier, we are continually monitoring this and we will adapt as quickly as we can.We are moving onto item 8.1a. receive government affairs update.Thank you, madam chair. we have . Transit fare bills (ab 1350, ab 2012 and ab 2176) . Caltrain sales tax resolution (sb 797) . Bay area public transportation (ab 2057) ab 2176 this would allow a young person to ride public transit. It has been passed the assembly and currently in the senate. I would mention that ms.Gonzalez is a very influential member of the assembly. So things to suggest often come to fruition. The cost to vta is estimated approximately $3 million a year. The second of those bills is by our local assembly member chiu. Mr. Chiu recently introduced a bill that allows people 65 years or older to access transitwithout paying a fare. The last is college students and that is particularly community colleges, csu's and the uc system to access transit without paying a fare. These re all predicated on a seat of cta funds. It would certainly impact our funds and those numbers are $121 million a year for cta, and sta, having said that, the total impact for vta allowing youth seniors, would cost vta fare box revenue approximately $9 million per year that would come out of the vta budget. We have been in contact, ms. Gonzalez is willing to consider our plea. Any of these losses would be back filled by state funding. We should recognize any associated revenue in our calculation. She's indicated that she will try and our position when these three bills is to work with the authors to try to come up with a reasonable and equitable way of dealing with this challenge. The problem that we have is that those reductions in operating funds will come up with ourinability to provide service. That is a deep concern because our service is provided to the most transit dependent in santa clara county. If anyone had questions on that part or would you like know keep going?7:45 PMWhy don't you go ahead and finish the whole thing and then I have got some public comments.Secondly, this legislation passed by senator hill. It has to do with the cal tran commuter rail service. As many of you know this has existed for over 100 years. In 1977 the transportation along with every other heavy rail wanted to get out of the rail service, the state undertook to continue the service to southernpacific as the contract operator. The three counties, san francisco, san mateo and santa clara, formed a study committee that raised local funding to support the service. Cal trans shortly decided after that that it no longer supports the ystem in the three counties and members of the three counties stepped up, informed the current owner ship and management system. That's the peninsula corridor joint powersauthority. Vta has three representatives on it as well as the other two counties. In our case, it's our chair, cindy chavez and -- since its inception, the county has provided funds to require fare box and other sources of revenue from operations and or a state of good repair. It would be 12 and $7 million and capital$7. 5 million. These are out of the total of $55 million total operating budget and 30 million capital. As I mentioned senator hill s. B. 797, this authorizes a one eighth cents sales tax in the county. If you move this bill and subsequent -- based on the ballot, if it is passed by two-thirds majority with the three counties would generate $54 million in the county with $108 million. As the board is well aware, we have 2060 inmeasure funds and 2016 measure b to support, enhance and south county service in caltrain. This funding will be provided according to the language and explains the difference what we carry in our books. The board will be asked to place the resolution to place the tax measure on the November ballot. Our intention is to bring this to our committees and to the board for decision on or before.7:48 PMThe last bill I wanted to bring to you is assembly bill 2057. This is to improve transit in the nine county areas. Please understand the legislative intent is to improve transit connectivity integration by supporting the creation of a high ridership accessible multimodal integrated public transportation system in the nine county san francisco bay area. Established through clear expectation, the public transportation to this oneseamless easy o use system from a perspective user. Equitably expanding the high quality reliable transportation. We support all of those goals. A proposed language has the following sections. Transit farepolicy, realtime information and technology -- and same base fares and improvements to project delivery, identified open functions, evaluate a single operator and minimize bureaucracy and meeting theseobjectives. We are in conversation with Mr. Chiu's office on a regular basis wel have expressed to him our 3concerns and any of these proposed processes. The potential creation of the bureaucracy within the bay area, you -- and conditioning funds on goals that maybe counterproductive to santa clara county. As I said, to continue the work with the author to provide the legislation that improved transit ridership in the bay area. I'm happy to answer any questions.7:50 PMThank you, before I ask my colleagues up here for any questions, we have three speakspeak speakers. ( calling names ) if you want to go ahead and lineup.Public speaker: through the chair, can you back up one slide, please. So what's completely missing here from this slide is the amount of revenue that you are going to be getting from each one of the counties.The fact is, that san mateo and san francisco combined will bring 45% of the revenue, 55% of the revenue will come from santa clara county. Which means we will be contributing $30 million a year more than each one of the other two counties. And we went to this presentation at caltrain this morning and what did weget? We are going to get a nice train to gilroy. The other thing I wanted to bring to your attention is there has been some discussion that it's $30 million that can be used to make-up for whatever the vta is contributing to caltrain. I will put to you that is not right. Because if you look at the tax from the 2000 measure a, clearly says funding for operating and maintenance cost. As far as i'm concerned, caltrain is rail. Light rail is rail and so is bart. Caltrain is rail and should be getting revenue like everybody else. Where I would like this funding to go which was fully funded six year ago which is improving caltrain by double tracking to gilroy and from palo alto to ilroy increasing services. That's where I would like that $30 million to go, please, thank you.7:52 PMThank you, next speaker, please. Public speaker: good evening, board members and i'm going to talk about two of these subjects with two different hats on. So, starting with s. B. 797, a non-profit focused on getting stable funding in a context of a region transit system. That is part two. On the part one, it'sexciting to see that the s. B. 797 maybe moving forward. Last october, the caltrain board with the number of the members here, voted to approve a business plan service vision with significant increases in service that would pick up many additional riders between now and 2040 to replace a full another 101 worth fautomobiles. So this tax would not go all the way there but transit has come up with a really good plan over the next ten years to potentially pick up more than another 20-25,000 riders with increases infrequency and if there is a measure on the ballot having improved service are going to be important. On the seamless transit bill one of the bay area that has been working to create the vision and then being a sponsor on this bill and we strongly believe based on international practices that it is possible for theregion like the bay area to have very well integrated well coordinated public transportation that will havehigher ridership. Please look to the details of the bill. There are some specifics that May have been floated that raise concerns about preempting for example the regional fare integration study.7:54 PMThank you very much. our last speaker? Public speaker: i'm very much in support of ab 2057. This is a bill that vta should support and it's something that would really have a positive impact not only on existing transit riders like myself and transit in the future. I have said this a lot of times but when I get o the bartstation as i'm walking from the bus at work bart leaves and I have to wait another 15 minutes. If you can integrate schedules and fares, that will get more people on board. I don't have a choice, but if you have achoice, you don't want to wait for many minutes everyday. That will save people with transit and also things that will really improve ridership and help this agency succeed. Lastly we need to think regionally about these things. There is tendency for everyone to be really parochial. But people are going through thecounty in the bay area and not just traveling within santa clara county. This is something that really does impact here.7:55 PMThank you, that was our last speaker card. I'm going to close the public hearing and ask if there are any questions from my colleagues and pass it back to the chair.7:56 PMI do have a couple questions regarding ab 1350, the gonzalez bill. And so I have poken before about the traffic that i'm concerned about once we are fully underway with the extension to eastridge and what that's going to do to the east side of san jose with all that mess that we already have that's happening there, but with the increase that is going to definitely take place. If this were to pass, would we be able to access funds in order to provide services to the children in order to get them school safely?7:57 PMThat's a great question, the challenge what it would do would be exactly the opposite. It would deprive us of funds from the system unless it was back filled.Would you elaborate on that. i'm trying to understand. If this is supposed to provide free youth passes, how would this do the opposite?It would do the opposite because the provision, if you look at the amount of money we collect from youth is $3 million a year that we would lose. If we did not follow law as it is currently written, we could loseapproximately $143 million a year. There is no positive on this. What we are trying to do now is convince the author of all of these bills and the governor that doing this means we need more money to back fill this so we can continue to provide our service to the transit dependent and the people is that clear?7:58 PMYs. i'm listening to you. I hear you. But it sounded like you didn't think can hear you but i'm listening. So but given then that, you have $3 million given from our youth passes. Can we use our own system to provide the services and I never got a clear definitive response but now you are saying if this were to pass,it would be the opposite and I have never been given the answer. That's where the confused expression comes from. Can you respond to that?7:59 PMI'm not able to respond to the questions about provisional services in that area but I can get back to you on that.I appreciate it because i'm hearing two ontradictory statements that are really not concerning to me. If we are getting $3 million from you specifically that we are not missing out on to provide the services that we need for the kids that we are been asking for and now I need an answer for the questions I have been asking for three years. Thank you very much. The other question is we are getting $3 million from ouryouth.The amount for the youth sales is $3 million per year.Okay, per year, the passes or the amount of revenues that we are getting from our youth passes is $3 million. Do you have the demographics, a break down of that $3 million.8:00 PMWhat we have is the number of people of 18 years of age or younger.Do you have the demographics of where those $3 million are 3 coming from?At the extent of the information e have at this point -- on youth passes are people who buy passes 18 year's or younger.I understand that youth means 18 or younger. I understand that. Let me be clear on my question, do you have the demographics from where those youth passes are coming from?Do you mean where people live?8:01 PMYes, geographic.Do you know the geography?I can provide that.That would be wonderful. let me get on in a.Here is the point I would like to make. $3 million sounds like a lot of money. I want to throw this out. We want to change the culture and want to produce a ulture that takes and uses our public transportationsystem. And and it seems to me if you were to invest in this 53-year-old woman. I will be 52 in a fewweeks.That I don't believe.8:02 PMI would have a hard time because i'm so ependent on my car, but you invest in my 15-year-old and she is more likely to produce, we are more likely to produce a mind-set that in the next ten years, she will not be as car dependent as I have been. So, $3 million sounds like a lot, but sounds like it maybe a worthwhile investment given everything else that we are investing into a system where we are trying to get people out of cars, where we are not being very successful and we are seeing a deadline in ridership for whatever reason, I don't know what it is. But we do need to produce a new generation of riders who are comfortable, they grew up in it, they see this as second nature. And they don't even think twice about itbecause this is not just what they grow up with, but that it's easy and accessible. If you can provide those facts that I was asking you, that would be great for me but I think this is an interesting way of creating a new culture of ridership.8:03 PMThank you.Any other comments or questions on this part of the agenda? Seeing none, i'm going to move on.When are we expected to get an update as you are working with these assembly members? When, hen is the expectation, i'm curious about the timeline of these bills.By next meeting we should have more information for you. To be clear, a lot of transit districts are taking an opposed position on doing that. We are not doing that because ms. Orozco said, if all three pass is $9 million and could be more than that.8:04 PMThank you. any other comments or questions? This is an information item, thank you for that, jim. Then our ast item on this. The ridership and safety.The last item on the ridership safety and security staff and preliminary security stats are in the folder andbinder. Madam chair, that concludes my report.All right. we are going to my report and it's going to very briefly, I just wanted to talk about the census and as you know the census counts its population every n years, and as you all know the census has a huge impact for funding for agencies like ours, and it's important that we get everyone to participate and vta has been invited by the 2020 census and the city of san jose's office of cultural affairs for countycollege students to submit original poster designed to everyone counts 2020 census. The winner at evergreen college was the winner. Let's give a round of applause. That will be displayed on transit vehicles and I want to say how much I appreciate that work. Item 8. 3. Items of concern and referral to administration. We had a few students come and ask for a study session. It's not that we would be adding another meeting due to the health situation. But I do like the idea and want to emphasize this to look for a tool or framework to work with students to take a deeper dive from a climate change perspective. What would help with that if we can do a deeper dive with the community will help us when we have moresolutions when the action item comes back to the board that staff is working on. I want staff to ive some thought to the very best way to do that because I would love to help. Secondly, I got called from anorganization of alliance for girls who are looking for making public transportation safer for younger people an girls in particular and a number of girls don't feel safe on ur buses and I have been contacting schoolsand asking them about that and there are many young girls that want to take transit and have had some unpleasant experiences. All that to say that i'm really interested in better understanding from staff if wecan meet with these young women and come up with some solutions to connect what issues they areraising maybe with our safety committee. I know jay was going to be meeting with them but angelique wanted you to encourage participate in that to learn how to proceed on that area. One more. Larry.8:08 PMFor the record, we would like to take a look at the caltrain parking ride lots and how we might get them covered under our contract instead of under the sam transcounty contract.Maybe just look at santa clara county.Thank you. this was brought to my attention by a community member and she happens to be my senior Commissioner For the city of san jose. She came for public comment which she did marsha and spoke about the safety on our light rail platforms. They brought this to my attention a couple months ago as well and she brought this through the proper channel but it seemed we did not get to a beneficial conclusion.As recently this week, there was a joint meeting between the city of san jose, dot staff and my taff and vtastaff and what it looks like is that there is a 1984 master agreement between the city of san jose and our agency, vta, in regards to the jurisdiction of the light rail platforms. It seemed like it took a long time to get to that answer which was frustrating after several months and marsha by all accounts was frustrated enough to let me know she wanted to come here tonight for a direct response. My direction would be if indeed that is the latest update that we have that tell us how we should manage these light rail platforms in regard to that and provide updates and also could utilize a look over in general if it is in deed not been up-to-date since 1984 and work with the city of san jose specifically on the safety improvements that are needed at these platforms and report back to sspto would be my guess.8:10 PMI think that sounds great. the only reason I don't want to have comment. These are none agendaized items and you will tell us how to address that.Thank you, on the idea for requesting a study session and taking a little from what I heard, they are trying to have a student summit on climate change and want transportation involved. Maybe we would be willing since we can't get a study session together, but maybe we can have a staff member who is knowledgeable attend their summit for something for them to work on.8:11 PMAre you talking about the summit?We are hosting it.I thought the students were having one.Vta is hosting one April 1st and students wanted us to participate to help them understand climate change prior to their event for a result on some activity. What I would like to recommend is that we work with staff to figure out how to take a deeper dive particularly that we can't do any extra gatherings right now. Willnote that support which is grea great.8:12 PMI was trying to do some research for vta policies. I couldn't find them through our website. So I would like staff to be able to ook into how an external person can access policies.All right. with that i'm going wrap this up before we get anymore work hat's not agendaized. I'm sorry, I opened the flood gates. I apologize. Are there any announcements? Seeing none, we are now going into closed session. To ream -- remind my colleagues, if you are