Mmunities. I would like to ask my colleagues to reach out to your contacts and the disabled community who are 3 interested in serving on this important committee. The committee has nine vacancies and they have had challenge meeting a quorum for some time now. That concludes my report. We will now take public comment.6:03 PMPublic speaker: hi, blair beak man, thank you for making this open and available to the public. It was an interesting idea to be working on and how transit could be cleaner.Point of order, Mr. Chair, I don't believe your comments are relevant o your report.I agree.I feel it has an openness about accessibility issues about transit issues, but I will close now.Thank you.Public comment or item 5.3 is now closed. That takes us to item 6. 0. Consent agenda.Items 6.1 through 6.17, members of the public who would like to address the board on the items on cons lease press your and or star 9 on the phone. For my colleagues, would anyone like to add anything on theconsent agenda? Mayor liccardo?6:04 PMYes, I would like to recuse myself from two items. 6. 2 and 6. 3 and I have a question.Director peralez?Yes, I would like to also recuse myself on item 6. 3.6:05 PMAny other abstentions or recusal recusals, seeing none. I will open up for public comment.We have one. blair beak man. you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hi, I spokeabout the previous item on the relevance of disabled community. I think that could be relevant. Items 6. 3 could it add flexibility to the future of the housing project. I think this relates to item 6. 4 and the needs to better work with a study session process on mixed income ideas that are taking place in many other areas in california at this time. Thank you.6:06 PMClerk: that concludes public comment.Thank you. we have a motion and second. Mayor liccardo, you had a question about 6. 7.Thank you very much. 6.7 and I want to thank staff for the commitments that you have identified and particularly in city of san jose where we had several accidents in the area. I would like to ask about thedollars and projects that missed the cutoff process and for the report that staff called up all the cities and said who was interested and it sounded that only a couple cities were. I'm 3 trying to understand because Ithink all the cities would be interested. Could you help me understand better how the money's allocated for these projects didn't make the cutoff?6:07 PMChair, i'm happy to start to answer the question. We have also our transportation planner that led this effort. Mayor, one important point because of the remaining time on this grant, they had to be able to commit with this short period of time. I think she can give you ore accurate details.I don't see celeste on here yet. Know marcella is.You May begin speaking when you are ready.Just testing.We can hear you.6:08 PMPerfect. thank you. mayor liccardo when we have gone through this process and we've done this several times which has happened more than once. We went to each jurisdiction below the cutoff line and requested they respond letting us know they are interested in these funds. The prior one was san jose, campbell and mountain view. We went through the process again and sent out several e-mails and left off the working group and that was all we had at that time. We had the second situation come up and wetalked to every agency and we had cupertino who responded to it and we had additional funds still remaining in the program. We were aware that los gatos was already on the tip and ready for a project so we approached them.6:09 PMI appreciate that. and believe me, I don't mean to disparage cupertino. But the question I had is why wouldn't every city say they wanted this money, nd the question is around the time commitment because of the source of the funding. Is that it?That is part of it. some agencies weren't prepared for the project to move forward at this time because there has been a lag since we originally had the program of projects approved until 2022. I'm sure that some of the agencies had moved on. Cupertino moved out with their project without the funding. The other is there is a time frame for these funds to be obligated and they have to secure the request forauthorization from cal trans in January of 2023. Which backtracks back to cal trans has to approve that.The packets have to be into cal trans and they start approving them in November which is really their high season to approve these packages. Basically all the agencies didn't respond or said they weren't prepared.6:10 PMOkay, thank you.You're welcome.All right. thank you. so I want to entertain a motion for this item with director liccardo recusing himself from item 6. 2 and 6. 3 and Mr. Peralez reactio -- recusing from 6. 3.6:11 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]6:12 PMMotion passes, chair. thank you.Thank you. we now move on o item 7.Closed session for 7.1a and b. Is there any public comment?Yes.Public speaker: I don't understand why you have the closed session in the middle of the meeting. Can you say when you will be back to give the public a sense when they know it can be safe to return and knowwhen things can be available. I wanted to mention that again and something I will continually ask to figure out if it is a good thing to do or not. Hopefully you can work on it. Thanks.6:13 PM> that concludes public comment.Thank you, we will now close public comment for items 7. 1a and b. Board members, the closed session link is sent to you. Please click that link and call in and please turn off your zoom video. Please do not log off so you can return to the meeting after closed session. We will now go into closed session and we will be back in about an hour. See you in closed session.7:14 PM( closed session ) vta and atu joined for members. At the board request to prepare an actuarial analysis tounderstand the cost that would be associated with providing a pension benefit of at least $3,000 per month for each of the victims famous under the vta atu pension plan. The cost to provide this alternative deathbenefit is $4 million. Vta and atu has entered into an agreement to amend the collective argaining agreement to authorize these death benefits to the victims family members. The assigned letter and barking agreement to protect these death benefits on the horrific tragedy. Staff now provides the board toeffectuate the board's desire to provide the benefits. Should the board wish to move forward, there will need to be a motion to adopt the resolution. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:15 PMThank you. we will now take public comment.7:16 PMThere are no speakers signed up to speak.Okay, we will now close public comment. It's been moved and seconded.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes, chair. thankThank you. item 8. 4. Action item - authorize the general manager to execute a contract with balfour beatty infrastructure, inc. , the lowest responsive and responsible bidd, in the amount of $15,671,684. 05 for the construction of the ocs rehabilitation phase 3 project (contract c21104f), and increase the available contract change order authority from the standard 15 percent to 25 percent ($3,917,921) to make the total available contract amount $19,589,605. 05. Planning (cmpp) committee there were no items submitted are you prepared to make a presentation or are you just 3 available for comments andquestions?7:18 PMI'm available for comments and questions. For a total of 38 miles of contract wire. We have made ananalysis that it has succeeded the wear. So any further wear and tear will affect this contract. That's why we need to replace the wires as soon as possible. Thank you very much. Are there any questions fromcolleagues, from staff?7:19 PMDirector jain?I was course about this direct authority.One is materials. the possibility of inflation, one is materials and one is labor cost. In the next two years, it is possible the materials cost might go up. What we are planning to do is purchase all the materials upfront to avoid any delays in inflation.Okay, thank you.Can I go ahead a show of hands?Chair jones, this is cindy. May I ask a question?Sure. new year's eve the structure -- the number of responses and responsible bidder made me wonder about our ability to to use best value contracting and if that's a tool we have available to us at vta?7:20 PMYes, we did an analysis and the process started November 1st, and there were six qualified factors but only three bidders. One was 3cm and -- and the estimate was around $21 million, c 3m were $23 million.Whereas -- it happened to be local ball four beatty, they were local. That's why we analyzed this and came up with the responsible bidder and they also met the dbe goal of 2. 97%. So their goal is 3%.7:21 PMBy the way, I thought the staff report was well done. My question is, do we have the option at vta of using different tools as a tool instead of lowest responsible bidder?7:22 PMI think they have enough capacity to perform the work.I am not asking about capacity, but vta, the rules that we operate under can use a different method of contracting called value contracting, or are we held to the lowest responsible bidder for some reason?Maybe somebody in procurement can respond to that.Greg has his hand raised. did you want to respond?That is a question for procurement. I just sent a note. I do not know the answer to that question, but I would think we do. I see sunny raise her hand. Let me see if sunny will respond to you.7:23 PMHi, we do have best value and this one was low bid solicitation but oftentimes we do best value depending on the scope of work when we start with the solicitation. For instance, our bus procurements, our bestvalue. Many of our procurements are our best value.Do we often use it for construction or more for procurement of goods?More for services actually, less for construction. It's mostly for services.7:24 PMThank you. I appreciate that very much.The whole procurement service is on the dollar amount and the analysis on that. Typically on the construction state of good repair, we are using the low bid process and typically what we have done and if we choose to do that because it's easier than using the best value in terms of the procurement and the reason why we are doing the procurement. We have to have reasons to do best value.Thank you. one other thing and I know we are going to revisit this issue but I remain interested in learning the analysis and under that section when we are looking at the business delivery requirement, that the analysis is also present in the staff report. Report.7:25 PMThank you.Director constantine?Thank you. based on the opportunities, the office of business diversity has put a percentage of 2. 97 fordisadvantaged business enterprises. The contractor has stated they will do a percent f 3% even?Correct.Do we have a measure to make sure they do follow with that?We will definitely monitor and make sure they meet that goal.7:26 PMGreat. thank you.Thank you.I understand that mayor liccardo recused himself but it's a low bid and he May unrecuse himself.Okay. i'm recusing myself.May I have a motion for this item?Moved by member bert and constantine.7:27 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] chavez is no.Thank you.8. 5. Information item - receive a presentation from the california high speed rail regarding the san jose to merced final environmental impact report/environmental impact statement (eir/eis). (verbal report) at this time I would like to welcome boris.7:28 PMGood evening. i'm with the high-speed rail authority and then I will focus on the final eir eir/eis. If you go to the next slide? Background on the project. Many of you will probably remember the proposition back in 2008. What the voters approved is the statewide rail system in two phases. The first phase the blue on the map from san francisco to anaheim and then phase 2 up to sacramento and san diego. Many of our cities are located to the distances where high-speed rail has big travel time advantages relative to auto and air travel.7:29 PMAlso looked at those and population. So that can be invested. More sustainable for transportation.And major freeways and this is what we are going to have to meet for the future of transportation and lastly the big picture s of course the economics. Starting to ie our regional economies together really starting to make the whole greater than sum of the parts to get around today. That's the background where we started with the voters back in 2008. The next slide, you can see one of the structures that we are building is behind me here. It's the southern entrance to fresno. At the same time, we environmentally cleared 300 miles out of the 500 miles of the statewide system shown in red and in the bay area with thecorridor completing corridor, and completing that project and this stretch i'm going to talk about today isgetting to the part from the end of the red line and branching off towards the bay area and towards san jose. So if we go to the next slide, please. So this project section really is an important one for us. This is a map that we had in our draft 2022 business plan shows the connectivity off the bay area and shows where we are in construction today in the central valley through that core transit network through the diridon station. That connection is really this key part of tying the silicon valley ato go and to fresno to bring that down to one hour by train. Really improving our regions and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The keyconnection will let us serve the largest city in the area and the county. I know speaking to the county state agency and you are very familiar with that of course. If you go to the next one. It also gives us a eally good critical connection and the bart system that your agency is helping with iridon and light rail and bus network and even the extensions from gilroy down to monterey county. Really critical connections and thelast part is we are planning the system between san jose and gilroy. We are really looking and this is what our alternative does and with caltrain service extending that electrification from downtown san jose to gilroy on that shared corridor. Before we turn to the east to get to the central valley. So if you go to the next one, please. So, for this project section, we have been working on it or a very long time. We started the environmental process in 2009. It took us 13 years to get through this and we published our environmental documents back in 2020 when covid started. We issued a revised supplemental draft eir eis and we are now at the final eir/eis stage and it was published in late February and we are bringing it to ourboard of directors at the end of this month. They will have a two day meeting on the 27 and 28 to consider the final environmental documents. So this is a little bit tough because we are going to give you an overview of our analysis and the mitigation impacts that we have. When we published the draft, we received public comments and all f those are included as well as our responses and revisions based onthose comments we received. So if you go to the next slide, please. Alternatives, there are fouralternatives that will fit it in the eir/eis with high speed service by itself between san jose and gilroy. The preferred alternative is alternative 4 which the the rail corridor that is the purple line on the map that extend the trisystem and from diridon down to gilroy before we ead to pacheco pass down over 50 miles of tunnelling through the pacheco pass through the central valley. We are working on the basis ofaccommodations. So what you see on the graphic there are two long blue platforms are the ones that would be used by high spiel rail services and then the other one by the corridor and the passengers get from those platforms but overall really leaving a lot to the partnership which is the much igger vision to what diridon station can become and getting in between those two items there.7:36 PMSo the basis for the alternatives and using the corridor and the natural habitats for the packs and allows us the better extension of the electrified caltrain service. Just on the process with public comments. We received almost 750 submissions totaling almost 149 comments, a revised additional 200 comments and working to respond to those 5,000 comments. To try to summarize the comments in one slide, of course they covered a variety of topics with wildlife and movement and crossing and traffic and environmental justice. What we have done with those comments is we have responded to each one but also where appropriate provided additional analysis to study those issues that were raced and keep it modified oradded mitigations as well to 3 respond to the comments we received. Again, just trying to give at least, one topic to cover a little bit more to give you a little bit of flavor of the issues we have dealt with alongthe way. This is some really good stories behind it in terms of our work with many particular stakeholders in the area that this corridor serves. We have a variety of really sensitive wildlife areas and movements inthese five chunks of areas. And in the valley and central region and look at how that movement works today and building a large impasse for the roject but really also improve the condition from what there istoday. Focusing in on the valley that will affect many in santa clara county and working for our corridor and also monterey road and a lot happens there through the valley. We worked with the open space authority and the wildlife and others on the sizing and the crossing. What we heard from the authority recently as they look at their map conservation of the valley, they are looking at these crossings as a foundationalelement of where they are looking to conserve he land. It's been a very successful partnership where we have benefited from their expertise to knowing exactly what they are today and ability to improve what's there today and address additional issues along the way. So that's just one of my personal favorites over the many years in this section. I think I have one more slide on front of our board of directors. In- the board will be considering three actions. First certifying the eir/eis nd the ceqa related document and direct the authority and ceo with a decision which will finish the federal environmental process nepa. And the next one, what that does for us is a major milestone. It helps us with being able to seek additional state and federal resources against the program with instruction on it, and advance our project working includinggetting the design moving forward and third party agreements and we'll have several laces that we'llinterface with vta and getting with your team as well as advancing our work on mapping and appraisals for our communities as we move the project forward. That's my last slide.7:41 PMThank you. now we'll go to public comments. Do we have any members of the public that would like to speak on this item?7:42 PMYes, chair. we have one their hand raised.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: yes, interesting item today to learnabout. I think it's really important how to consider the future of building chsr throughout the state in terms of less amount of impact on taking out people's homes and displacing people. I'm really interested in that concept and really interested in ideas how a project can be accessible to all the bay area and that includesliv liver more, tracy, all of the these areas should be inclusive. Thank you.7:43 PMThank you. we have one more hand raised.Thank you. this is kitty moore. I have a question about the process with respect to certification of the eir and wondering if any other committees within vta have a first look and curious if there are another set of eyes and to have the environmental review committee. That's it for me. Thank you.7:44 PMI wasn't sure if you wanted me to respond. Ultimately the board of directors is the one that approves and certifies the environmental document, not the vta board. This is an information item for vta awareness and obviously communicating ith you about the document but ultimately this would ge to our board of directors and it would not go to any committees before that.Thank you.I don't see any other hands for the public. I will close public comments. I have a question for you. That is on grade separation. Once high-speed rail hits santa clara county, do you have all graded rail at crossings?7:45 PMWe are not proposing to grade separate. We are going to be improving each of the grade crossings and complying with the safety requirement, but we also recognize that that is a topic of interest for many of the communities we serve. And what we have seen in the caltrain corridor that there needs to be four grade separation and recentl recently partnered with those and worked with san jose to focus on those.But from a high speed rail perspective, we have support from the rail agency. That's the role that we'll explain in a later conversation.7:46 PMFor the train going at 10 hyper -- miles an hour for the grade.That's the requirement.Thank you. director liccardo?Hey, thanks, chair. thank you boris for the presentation. I just had a question about alternatives, about what was studied and what wasn't studied. From my 30,000 foot level knowing very little aboutengineering or many of the other issues that you have to grapple with, it seems to me that pacheco pass is the biggest challenge and the most costly part of project. I think the longest longest tunnel in north aerica.And what happens if we try to make-up the time somewhere else. I don't know how much time that takes off if you have to make those turns. I'm just surprised at the really monumental cost why other alternatives were not analyzed instead of just digging a giant hole on that mountain?7:47 PMThere were different alternatives on the analysis stages for the routes and part of the eir/eis. In addition the tunnelling and speed is the one and grades and habitats and conserved lands through the pass which are some of the other reasons and including the reservoir for the need for that stretch to get hrough themountains. Some options were looked at. I don't know if we looked at the one over the freeway specifically, but I think there are other challenges and curves that will be part of that one.7:48 PMBy that, you have to slow the train down too much to be able to make those turns?You May imply not be, the turning radius on a high speed train is about 100 at zero speed. So even at bask speeds, the curves can get to a point where you cannot operate safely. This is dangerous mayor where weare talking about engineering. Sorry. I would just say without having an engineer on the line to contradict me I would say there is challenges in terms of curbs and grades that leave you towards if you are crossingthrough mountains where tunnelling becomes the only option. If you would like to dig into that deeper, we can set up a time but there was a lot of studying that went into the analysis.7:50 PMThanks. I appreciate it. I understand well beyond -- that you are saying it is not safe and that would be unsafe for the train and you are saying it's not possible.I can get you more information and follow up with you directly on it.That's ll right. I don't want to take up all your time. I appreciate it. Thanks, boris.Director hendricks.Thank you, I disagree with mayor liccardo, I think he understand a lot about this. On your eir, can you share anything with us about actual construction timing and expectation when we see trains to san francisco. Can you share that?7:51 PMSure. it's a funding question because that's the long haul. If we had all the money today, we would have it to diridon station. My focus right now, I would love to have all the cash available for construction. I tried to briefly describe it in our last slide in terms of next steps in the design and investigations and right-of-way.Those things are a several year process and probably within 3-5 years between where we could be in construction if we were to be doing all of those steps right away after we finish the environmental clearance. After that, that's where the big dollars come in for the work to get to the bay area. So we are doing the work to get ourselves ready as we pursue those sources.7:52 PMMy recap is it's a decade plus if we have the money and we don't so it's longer than that.Near san jose it shows you are doing grade separation construction work, where is that?It's a little further north. we were part of the restoration project in san mateo. So that one was, we partnered with the city there and county on that one. One of the options that we had been looking at on the peninsula would include a track in that location. So we helped fund part of that grade separation to be sure it had the width available.7:53 PMI would like to follow up with vice-mayor john about the grade separation. If I heard you correctly, you are very passionate about this project where we are creating wildlife crossings for the railroad track. I heard you say that wildlife concerns are part of the questions that came up around placement of above groundtrack in pacheco. Are bicycle pedestrian concerns weighted at the same level of all that wildlife concern in terms of the need for grade separation?Certainly those are very important and I think what we've tried to do is ensure that there is safe for both pedestrian and bicycle and all the ways to get across the rail corridor. We have an alternative that welooked at that was fully grade separated and has massive impacts on the surrounding communities with those projects in terms of displacements with hundreds of homes with those options. This has been thehistory of looking at some of those questions where we have seen that the local communities are in a better place to be the ones traded and looking at those trade offs and weighing them and in terms f how to design the ultimate grade separation projects. We definitely think there is a role in that but it starts at the local level.7:54 PMI'm trying to understand the fully graded what you proposed with the fully graded solution if the local agencies proposed it. Presumably they wouldn't need to have that domain issue. It's really a question of who funds. I'm trying to understand if it's a difference between high-speed rail solution and the impacts but you fund it all, but if it's local projects, they probably wouldn't have all of those impacts. Do you get the distinction i'm trying to understand?7:55 PMI guess what I will say there are clearly trade offs between cost design and impact implications on rade separation projects. Everyone can weigh those differently and come up with a different answer on with a the right answer is for the local basis for what's important for the considerations. That's all i'm trying to say.I'm trying to understand with high-speed rail if you are doing a grade separated alternative, it sounds like you would provide funding for it. Is high-speed rail willing to assist ith funding for grade separation to local agencies that are trying to look at individual requirements and grade separation?7:56 PMSo, I think what I would say is we looked at various options. One was a higher speed option where grade separation are required. With the proposal we are proposing does not require grade separation because it'stravel at lower speed. For this project, we want to work with the community and see a role in partner and funding those. The government has proposed $500 million in district budget towards grade separation project as art of the transportation package. We see that as a massive step forward from where the state has been frankly in providing $15 million a year for a very long time for an existing program for grade separation. There needs to be more done on all levels and from th comprehensive business plan, it was in the books of $11 billion towards investments. The way these projects have happened is leveraging the funds for different sources for local and state for federal funds to move them forward. So e see the rolethat we can lay to help to move that on the safe side of things but it's not going to be the answer where high-speed rail is going to look to fund that.7:57 PMI wasn't looking for that. you are using the words at grades where locations are required and where you don't have to do that. I would like to share from our perspectives from our community along the corridorthat they believe grade separation is required. Because 100 miles an hour plus train at grade and I have seen all the circumstances things that will come down and how that is done is very scary for a lot of people and there is challenges from a bicycle pedestrian as well as vehicular. So i'm just trying to offer theperspective that as we are looking at alternatives and funding, that I hope we take as much consideration at any grade separation, not just the ones that you guys meet some criteria that says it must be required.That we take as much consideration as we are for wildlife crossing and doing grade separation and those kind of things that we are trying to apply the same logic to other grade separation along the corridor where we are having the same trains. That's the message i'm trying to drive forward. Thank you very much.7:59 PMThank you. director bert?Yes, I will like to follow on with chair jones and hendricks on the grade separation. I believe high-speed rail has a real dilemma. They don't have the funding they need for the project. The pacheco cost that was baked into the last business plan or the legislature appears to be significantly higher than the one the legislature received, and there is no funding in the high-speed rail and they don't have the funding for the grade separation. But it doesn't change the fact of the real need for the grade separation. I understand that operating your trains below 125 miles an hour does not trigger a mandated grade separation, but as director hendricks was just describing that is not just a different perception but the reality that we need to grade a train system with that kind of speed. This system was never sold to the voters as one that would not be grade separated. Racheting on this section below 125 gets you through a legal threshe threshold, but it's not what the voters intended and what the community needs. When you talk aboutn grade separation, that's a huge understatement that I think we need to be more forthright and we as officialshere need to be more forthright on this thing just can't fly without grade separation.8:01 PMThank you.Director chavez?Thank you, I want to reinforce what you said, pat. I think the grade seps are the desire for every community. I want to reinforce that. The other issue with my colleagues is the policy advisory board for the diridon station had a very robust meeting at our last meeting and a big part of that was round how we do a much better job of integrating all of the activities at the diridon station. And I raise that because I have a significant concern that the way that high-speed rail is coming in is very different than, well ot different, Idon't believe all of our programs are integrated and i'm nervous about it, and i'm raising that because -- boris, did you present at our last meeting?8:02 PMI did.So I didn't know if you representing high-speed rail had an opportunity to talk to the other partners about the issues that the policy advisory board made and it wasn't just myself but a level of angst from the board itself. Can you give us your thoughts about this process at that meeting?8:03 PMYes, there will be another meeting next week. We are doing as much as we can to be as responsive to the items that were raised back in february. So I think there are some questions around how do we move thisproject forward in terms of what it would take and that was focused on how to get two environmental crossings and around governance and the potential information of another entity to take on ome of that.There has been a focus on those questions and I don't know that we'll have a couple answers in those few weeks and the angst heard from the policy makers.8:04 PMWhat we are concerned about is every entity treating the real estate like it's punching around them and the property is not integrated to make it user friendly and customer friendly and users being now to impede the different transit modes. That's where we landed and the points about governance and how it would be financially managed and invested were also points that were raised and i'm glad you raised that as well. Thank you.Thank you. I don't see any other hands raised. This was an information item so we don't need a motion.Thank you, boris for that presentation.8:05 PMThank you very much. have a good evening.Silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. (verbal report)Good evening, board members. this is my presentation. I have a couple updates here. No. 1 update and bullet is probably old news but it's very good news. Our project made it to the 2023 budget with 100million assigned to it. We continue working with fta. Very cooperative with coordination and we are gettingready when we are ready to start to getting to the point where we can initiate discussions. Our real estate program is doing really good and we are going to be on schedule. We started now the second round and the final round of the cooperative agreements with the cities. We still have work to do with five cities. We are working with the city of san jose, city of santa clara and I know we have gone back and forth and Ibelieve we are doing good and in the second quarter of 2022 we should have the framework on that. Last but not least, we are at the final execution of our agreements for the third part such as the city of san jose, permit environments, santa clara, jpb, joint powers board and pg & e working on several fronts to bring power to get ready. I will keep you updated on that. We are waiting to finish the negotiations that is being delayed by a couple of months. We are really making good progress on our tunnel contractnegotiations. We are targeted to be before you for the first tep approval ext month. We still have work ahead of us with quite a few items, but we hope to be before you next month for an approval to do theinitial phase of the design for several innovations with the contractor, we are still working on that and of course the contract and construction pan. Our targets are very good here. Then the santa clara station andwe did have now the second round of the contractors. We are talking to them to development and sometime at the end of summer and we'll finalize a couple of issues and we'll go through that to finalize.The stations, no activities at this time and we are waiting to see where we are with the tunnel and after we have the tunnel, feedback and start working on this. My last page is the framework. We talked about this before. I added a couple arrows at the end because now we are finalizing the documents. We want to make sure the contractors are very clear on their mind that when they finish their work, they are not goinghome and they are going to be supporting us when we do the final testing with the operations. This is my update for the month. If you have any questions, i'm all yours. Thank you.8:10 PMThank you takis. we are now going to public comments. Do we have any embers of the public that would ike to speak on this item.Yes, we do. we have one. blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blairbeakman here. Thank you for this item. You have each item thank you. On this item, I think we are starting to address the mtc a bit more openly in the public meeting process in that they can be a good facilitator when we at the vta May have issues and questions. It seems the kate necessary previous item and possibly with this item in financing to get some sort of direction and understanding from the mtc that you guys have been reaching out to them openly and public spaces more recently. Thank you for that. I think we can handle ourselves pretty good financially with this item. Good luck in your efforts to do so. Ithought I would mention this at this time. Thank you.8:11 PMThat concludes public comment.All rght. we'll now close public comment for this item. I see jain requesting to speak.Thank you. I understand there is going to be a joint vta bart meeting. Can you confirm that?Yes, that is the meeting planned before and vta and bart directors are going to meet nd we are going to update them. Yes.8:12 PMOkay, and then I wanted to understand the $200 million for the fta is that an advance?It's the annual appropriation. Every year if it is in the budget, they are going to do the appropriation. This is 1. 945.Okay, can we get someone from the fta to explain more carefully why their process is so much higher than ours?8:13 PMWe have discussed that many times before. Fta did not do an estimate. Fta did a risk assessment. Ftalooked at the micro economic market positions and did that assessment and said to us that we believe your project can go as high as 30% from $7 billion to 9 something. And they said that's our number and that's what we are willing to fund and they committed and they got permission from congress up to 25% of $9. 1 billion. My boss probably has a better explanation than that. Carolyn.I think what fta does is they do a risk analysis because the investment they have on the project will make sure they deliver on the project and we have the funding to be able to do that. We need a funding plan to match the potential risk at a higher level. Now, I can say that on phase 1 they did that as well and theyadded an additional $100 million on and as long as we are on budget. So we are okay. So based on the market with supply market we'll come back out with an estimates but we'll put a risk assignment on that and contingency. There will be a risk refresh but with fta they are going to be staying with the 9. 14 particularly on the market that they are seeing across the country. They believe the risk is there to go to the 9. 14. But that we should prepare for that and have a funding plan for that.8:15 PMDirector hendricks?You said you would be coming next month to the board and you will view the design and planning for construction. I can see this being more than a regular board meeting.That's a great question. I will respond from the project manager's point. As you know we started the evaluation back in December 12th. We are going around-the-clock here for the last five months because of the reasons you discussed. And remember this contract is a progressive design build that has two stages.Stage 1, the items I just said, stage 2 it will be the construction. Now, when the time comes and I have completed at the echnical level, the least of hese innovations, I think it will be the time where we need to get together and take you through this. Now i'm never leaving this stuff. This otification is made by one contractor and they are still the property of that contractor. We need to figure a way how can we talk without really exposing the contractor in case we are not in agreement in what he is proposing. Carolyn can say that better.8:17 PMThat's the most we can say right now. We are smack in the middle of the negotiations.So all I would say, I appreciate all that is that you are going to ask the board here to award a contract that is a pretty big contract, and I would just encourage us to be able to have, I don't know what the answer is, but I can see even for us to review the documents is going to take a while and seems a little bit bigger than kind of the standard board item.I'm not going to ask you to award the whole contract. I will ask you to award stage 1, the engineering services construction and planning. I'm not going to ask you to award the $3 billion contract.Okay, but it's a pretty big important foundational stage, right?8:18 PMYes.It's not trivial is what i'm trying to get to. And on the package 1, I would like to request that we do everything possible so that it does not go farther than 22 because I would like to vote on that. If it goesfarther than 12/22 I won't be able to vote.Yes, remember the systems contractor will go inside the tunnel for this equipment for that. Before we finalize the tunnel contract, we are not going to put out the final system. That's the reason we are going slowly. Yes, I hear your point.8:19 PMThank you. kudos to the team to keep it going.Thank you. we'll do the best we can.Thank you. director liccardo?Thank you. congratulations to takis and carolyn for the budget and obviously a very significantcommitment and quite important in this moment when we see a surveillance hat is in the media that the u.S. Transportation or the federal government has lost confidence somehow on this project because of a report and I have read the report myself so I have a pretty good idea what it says and clearly dispels that narrative. The question I have is what have we done to communicate that because of course we are still on the process of communicating externally with funding sources in the state and the federal level and we know that we are going to continue to need to do so and it would be helpful, I think, for us to have clearerrecord than what has been established so far in the media. And wondering whether than hitting the send button on the press release, have we written to reporters and to say here is the 100 million commitment and this project is on track.8:20 PMMr. Mayor, if you allow me to say ne thing on your first statement. Whether or not this project has the confidence of the u. S. Dot, guarantee you it does. Today you and carolyn and the rest of the board can call the secretary and tell them we are ready with our fund, you can get the execution of the contracttomorrow.8:21 PMI'm confident with that but the problem is it's not being spelled out in the media and the question of whether or not we have actually communicated to the specific members of the media so they understand what is really going on.I do agree with you mayor and one of the things we can do more of, and I have actually had someconversations this week with our communications team from the project and the rest to try to really get he point across that this is a very well guarded project now the just by the fta but it's been the no. 1 projectin the region that people want to see get built and we are still getting lost in that but that's hat they want to see is this connection of bart into san jose. It's something we need to continue. I think we need to step it up, I agree.8:22 PMOkay, maybe we can talk more off line, carolyn.Yes.We need more than just hitting the send button. I think you understand he point.Yes.Okay, thank you.Thank you and thank you takis for the presentation. It sounds like we are on track to get this project done in my lifetime.Mine too, remember. [ laughter ]8:23 PMI remember. thank you. Have a good night. This is an information item so we don't need a motion. T lastitem on the agenda. Sb 129 joint labor management committee update. (verbal report)Yes, good evening, members of the board, 'm here to provide a brief update on the efforts. We have completed some projects of our 1st quarter of our work plan and the resiliency center and plans to have a dedication ceremony in April from the district attorney's office and our goal is to make these resources publicly available. Our employees have been utilizing this center, but it's really for anyone who has beenimpacted by the events and we will be -- our employees continue to still use this counseling center with up to 7 contracted clinicians. The project has been developed and the first part of the training will start at the beginning of next month. Of course the on going efforts you see on the slide, we continue to partner to provide mental health care services to our employees and dedicated days off for employees who need totake time when they should not be behind the wheel or cabin. We are establishing those days. An inclusive planning engineering and operations efforts to generate the guadalupe station. It's a fairly large undertaking and working on the power and signals department and the maintenance crews. So building demolition could start at the end of april. We are very mindful of what this could mean and feel to people at the yard there now. So we have been having meetings with employees to procure this process and will continue to do that in addition to identifying additional funding strategies that are being considered for the overall work to reinvent. Lastly, here is our timeline showing the climate transformation effort which is an intent to award the finalist who has been made public March 22nd and we are in negotiations now. We are still on track to deliver this final award recommendation to the board. We'll be bringing this to you April 22nd at the workshop. That's it. I can answer any questions that you May have.8:26 PMThank you, brandy. we will now take public comments.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready public speaker: hi, just a very quick thought and idea.Thank you to chairperson jones for offering that would take an hour for closed session report. Thank you.Okay.That's the last public speaker and we'll ow close public comment on this item. Are there any questions from my colleagues? I don't see any hands raised. That is an information item. So we don't need a motion.8:27 PMThank you.Thank you. so we are now onto item 9. 1. 9. 1. Items of concern and referral to administration I don't see any raised.On the announcements, e have a workshop scheduled for April 22nd at 9:00 a. M. Are there any otherannouncements? I don't see any hands raised. So you now onto item 9. 3, and since we got all the publiccomments in earlier and there weren't any outstanding speakers, we are not going to take public comments for this item. That brings us to adjournment. And I want to adjourn this meeting. That's it. The meeting