Good evening, everyone. i'm going to ask the chambers to come to order. If folks need to have aconversation, please have them uses. We are ready to begin. We'll begin with our roll call.5:32 PMBoard member blankley, carr, carrasco, cortese, davis, diep, board member ellenberg, jones, liccardo, mcallister, miller -- neil, peralez, hendricks, chairperson chavez.5:33 PMHere. we have a quorum.Thank you. please join me in the pledge of allegiance.I'm going to item 7.3.7.6.I would also like to move item 7. 7 to the consent calendar which is adopting a resolution declaring a climate emergency.5:34 PMWe've added 7.7 and 7.6 to the consent calendar. We have a motion and our motion made by glen and chappie.John?I would like to comment on 6. 5.Okay. we'll get to that.We are at the orders of the day. All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously. Our next item on our agenda is award and commendations. We are recognizing retirees with more than 25 years of service. Let's give them a round [ applause ] . [ applause ] . The biographies for our retirees will be given by victoria.5:35 PMOur first retiree is -- david hohl, bus maintenance instructor, for 39 years of service; he was recognizes fordistinguishingly leading the program. Congratulations to david hohl. [ applause ] kevin andres, coach operator, for 35 years of service; driving. [ applause ] kevin was known for his personable demeanor. Kevinprovided 35 years of distinguished public service and active with vta. Congratulations to kevin andres. [ applause5:36 PMSilvia jovel, coach operator, for 33 years of service; service to her passengers and helped operators who needed assistance. Sylvia was recognized for here exceptional demeanor and respected by her colleagues.She provided 33 years of distinguished public service and asset to vta. Congratulations to sylvia. [ cheers and applause ] our next commendation is for roy molseed, senior environmental planner, for 32 years of service; roy began his career with santa clara county district. Roy was conscientious, collaborative vital employee who was experienced in the provided 33 years of . Roy - distinguished public service and asset to vta. Congratulations. [ applause ] coach operator, for 32 years of service; [ cheers and applause ] terry began his career with santa clara county transit district as a coach operator in 1987. Terry demonstrated passion for his work and commitment to safety and attended 27 years of safe driving. Terry earned a prestigious operation of 2 million miles award and employee of the year. Terry was elected and served aspresident and business agent for the union local 265 from 2017 through 2019. Terry provided 32 years of distinguished public service and was an asset to vta. Congratulations to terry russell. [ applause ] engineer, for 32 years of service; [ applause ]5:40 PMJane began her career with santa clara county transit district since 1987 and involved in the development of design of the system and signal controllers. Jane served as the electronic tolls systems manager for state route 237 expresslanes and u. S. 101 state route 85 and express lane. Jane worked on vta'sexpresslanes program with increasing levels of responsibility and was a key staff member responsible for the success of vta's express lane program. Jane provided 32 years of distinguished public service and was an asset to vta. Congratulations to jane yu. [ applause ] we have a number of retirees not able to attend today. Please allow me to announce them.5:41 PMJose ruiz, coach operator, for 31 years of service; bus dispatcher, for 30 years of service; supervisor, for 29 years of service; secretary, for 28 years of service; for 25 years of service; and vijay aggarwal, service.Thank you. That completes our retiree commendation.5:42 PMThank you so much. let's give applause. E big round of - [ applause ] we are very grateful for your service.Thank you so much. We are now moving to item 3. This is public comment on our agenda. This is an opportunity for those members of the public that would like to speak to the board on items that are not on the agenda. I would like to invite up tom mayor and dave treslow.5:43 PMPublic speaker: my name is tom mayor. I need you to set up the light rail. It will increase ridership. I know I talked to you about prioritization and pre-emption. Prioritization should happen. The eastbound is a priority. Westbound, not so much. Talking to staff here discovering that priority is not a quiet. So now so when you talk about priority, you are talking about a higher priority because you can be given priority that is very small. Thank you.5:44 PMThank you. public speaker: i'm dave treslow and I want to get your information on the platform prohibiting firearms and other objects on vta. I did some research, vta's only agency that I can identify of the 23 thatare embraced by the metropolitan transit commission. I don't know that this matter has come before the board. It could have been handled at administratively, but it does present a serious threat to vta because of litigation. I have already engaged the arguably the premier law firm of firearms rights and a meetingwith the attorneys in a week and a half who defended the heller mcdonald decision in chicago in supreme court. I don't think this is a good policy. It's completely out of the scope of other agencies that I can find.It inhibits commerce, impacts kids, lots more details in the letter. I ask you to let me know and I have asked the clerk, the board secretary for the records on this and to reconsider the policy because nobody else has it that I can identify. Thank you very much.5:46 PMThank you, dave. david, if you come to the podium, it's got a built in mic.5:47 PMThank you. public speaker: will try to offer a few ideas. I have early feelings that an elevated rail line with two rails that serves only high-speed rail for all of san jose for the option of building rail line in the futurethat is environmentally safe for the community. It is my very early guesswork with ground train and increase traffic flow into the future. Please continue to be open to consider a merced to tracy line or a second express line from . A. To tracy. A bart line to tracy and the bay area can work for the finalconnections. Fire officials of the rea should have a good depth of knowledge on the subject and this would offer public transit options and not take away as many homes in the peninsula san jose. I feel from a well-meaning humanistic eir report, santa clara county can be more respected around the bay area and around this country. With 45 seconds to become my usual speech. I hope that you can also consider a 120 reviewpolicy for the ig belly apps. I hope that you can consider some sort of ad hoc working committee to consider not for now, but in the future how to change the logo of vta that I have mentioned here before.And with 14 seconds left, a nice reminder that thank you to arp practices and how you are bringing 180 day collection day practices to 45 days. A testament to good xub republicans and creativity. Thank you.5:49 PMThank you. public speaker: I have a couple of questions on vta. I have a question about why vta doesn't go to the medical center on the 55 line where seniors have to walk. But the school kids are riding. And then o'connor. Bus 23. There is no bus that goes to o'connor hospital. So, when you guys made thesechanges, what were you thinking of?5:50 PMDo you have anything else? you wanted to say?No.I'm going to ask our customer service.They have senior citizens walking and wheelchairs.Thank you. all right. that is our public comment. Thank you for coming to speak. We don't have any publichearings. E are going to committee reports. I saw marty, then I will be inviting -- welcome5:51 PMGood evening, madam chair, vice-chair hendricks and members of the board. At our January meeting 5. 1.Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter) i'm happy to introduce you our new vice-chair and comes with us with a background in transportation, engineering and now roadway ransit and bicycle facilities.It's an honor to be here and serving as vice-chair and being raised in cupertino. I provide complete streetsroadway expertise.5:52 PMWelcome.On other business the cac submitted the information on your agenda and agenda item 7. 8 express bus partnership program. On the 15th watch dog regular agenda, we approved exercising the option to extend the contract with jenny and ngo for independent compliance ervice for fiscal year 2019. This is for the independent watch dog committee fulfilling it's ballot measures for measure a as follows reviewing allmeasure a expenditures and ensure tax dollars are being spent in accordance with the intent of the measure. It was a very lever move of ours to extend the contract to save money. Last but not least, thecac was honored to receive a presentation from Mr. Rod diridon from public transportation in silicon valley.That concludes my report.5:53 PMThank you for being here. are there any questions from my colleagues? No, we had a history lesson.I do want to add since you asked last time that we have been recruiting and appointed a new member. We have two vacancies and we expect to be filling those soon.Excellent. thanks, marty. We are going to move on to item (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (constantine) the report is in your packet. Chairpersons' report. (verbal report) larry will provide the reportlater. Rob, you are going to provide a report during congestion management or do you want to do it now?5:54 PMI think i'm supposed to do it now.All right. a brief report. So congestion management program and planning committee met on January 23rd. We reviewed the items on our agenda, 6. 5, 6. 9, 7. 6, the committee's comments are summarized in the staff report and we asked for a small change in the report of 6. 5. Thanks to staff for that. We had a brief discussion for 6. 5 which I was mentioning. Is --5:55 PM[inaudible].Shall I wait? we had a brief discussion on item 6. 5, the ebrd second addendum for the secondsupplemental report that involve the changes and changes around the tree replacement. That concludes my report.Are there any questions for rob? no? all right. Chappie? I think you are going to talk to us about being safe, secure and transit planning.Yes, the safety security and transit planning and operations committee met January 23rd. The committee reviewed regular agenda item 7. 8. Express bus partnership rogram and new pilot vanpool subsidyprogram. We recommended this item. The committee received information on electric buses as well as the bus roll out plan. Staff shared with us the regulation for clean transit in comparison with hybrid diesel,battery electric and hydrogen buses. We will see more of this topic as staff is currently analyzing this technology and will talk to us in the spring with what they have learned the board will consider zero emissions roll out plans in June 2020. That concludes my report.5:56 PMThank you for that. for the governance and audit committee meeting we met earlier today and climate emergency resolution and discussed the timeline for the board and government assessmentrecommendation. We had most of the committee there. I would like to thank the committee for coming to making sure we are staying on our tasks. We had a lot of good feedback and a very good discussion, I thought. Then, I want to take this opportunity in particular to thank the ad hoc board enhancement committee for their work and as john pointed out, they collected 300 hours. Let's give them a let's give a round of applause and thank them for 3 their service. I'm very excited about the ad hoc work and gna will go from every other meeting before the board meeting to every meeting to get through that work and I did not get a second to start the meetings earlier. We'll still start at 4:00. But there you go. That includes my ga report. Is there any other reports that board advisory reports that anybody wants to make?5:58 PMMy item.We need to declare a climate emergency. You can't fake it anymore. What's the matter? You want to interrupt me because i'm talking to you guys. Our politicians have failed us. She would tell you that you failed. The worse thing is when you declare a climate emergency. You failed. You destroyed our county. It's true because you are not paying attention. You are saying the airport is green, good for the environment expanding he airport. That's wrong. That's not tue. That's why I want everybody to come on this TuesdayFebruary 11th, at 6:00 p. M. Because we are dealing with four emergencies, climate, ecological crisis and now a new crisis called coronavirus. We have four emergencies. You might remember this is a concurrency of voices with our bible okay talking about the four enforcement of the apocalypse and you are not doinganything. Except cindy said we have a climate emergency and we have to do something about it. We need to have homes, not hotels. Neighbors, not transients. Mayor liccardo did say something good that resiliency was important to have in our neighborhoods, not economic growth. You have to stop talkingabout economics and politics, talk about the realness of climate emergency.6:00 PMThank you, tessa. i'm sorry I interrupted you. That takes us to item 6 which is our consent agenda which is 6. 1 through 6. 12. I'm sorry, 7. 6 and 7. 7. Let me tell you what those are. Do we have cards on 7. 7? Arethey in this right here? okay. What we are going to do is we are going to -- we put the just earlier the climate emergency declaration on consent and also the vehicle registration. Thank you. I was just going to say 3 that normally under consent, we don't have an opportunity to have real robust debate, but given that we don't have a really full agenda, i'm going to go ahead if people are comfortable and leave thecomment on climate change. With tat, i'm going to invite tahoe tahoe roe, monica melon, john johnston, bruce, marshall, rachel and tessa. Public speaker: hello, my name is michael roe. I'm with milpitas. I encourage you to develop the climate change emergency because it is really an emergency. One that we have seen the beginnings of around the world and here in california increasing with intensity every single year. I would also like to talk to you about the importance of public transit specifically with where we are.Santa clara county and california as a whole has been praised for their diversity because we have opportunities for low-income and families. Part of that opportunity is to provide transit for everyone sothese low-income families still have the ability to go to their jobs and have a general sense of self agency and freedom. I'm not just referring to low-income, but i'm referring to senior citizens but also youngteenagers. Cars are becoming hard to reach and then we are becoming exclusive instead of inclusive.Thank you. Public speaker: hi, my name is monica melon. Even though I decided on the consent calendar.I think this is important. I have been coming to these board meetings since 2018 and this is the first time that an item that we have requested has been on the agenda. To my knowledge from the research that I have done this is the first time that any item that I have requested by the public is on the agenda. I really thank you for the referral and leadership on this. And all of you for listening to us on this comments and the board that added to this resolution and supported this in the past few months. I was so hopeless when I first started coming to these meetings but now i'm feeling like things are starting to move in the rightdirection. A few days after the referral was sent I got a few e-mails from people in other counties saying they were inspired by what's going on here and they want to do that in their county. I want to thank you all and encourage you to vote for this and I really look forward to the future. Thank you. Public speaker: hello, board, my name is john johnston. I worked this morning, I live in san jose and work in santa clara. I appreciate everything vta does. I wanted to come and publically speak in favor of declaring a climate emergency. Also you thank you, dave courtese for leading that. As the other citizen previously talked, I hope that you declare the climate emergency and act like an emergency going forward and prioritize the things that will reduce emissions and help our future. For the rest f my time on a different topic, Iappreciate the new transit schedule and map. Even though the routes have changed, the new map is easy to read and easy to find the frequent routes. Thank you on that. Public speaker: good evening, council.Thank you for the opportunity to address you. My name is bruce naggel. I live in palm view and been using vta for the last 12 years. I think it's really important to declare a climate emergency. I think this is something that you have within your purview to make a difference on it. F you look as an example what stanford mass has done which is all electric. You have the opportunity to understand how somebody else has been able to manage this. We need to increase mass transit and make it as ecologically pure as possible. What you have received from san jose, it will go to 85% carbon free and pretty soon carbon free.Not everybody is able run on fuel that is carbon free. Please understand this. We need this for all of masstransit for the opportunity to provide good service and reducing the amount of pollution. Thank you.6:07 PMThank you. welcome.Public speaker: my name is rachel, i'm here to urge the vta to adopt a climate emergency. This is a status quo and leaving the system as it is and only to a tragejectory in the climate system and they contribute togreenhouse gasses that contribute to our health and the environment's health. In fact the information has been available since the 80s and popping up all over the news for a good reason. Because the very 3systems are the environment affected by climate emergency collapsing simultaneously, the climate as a whole is affecting more rapidly than we imagine. Projections is precious with the time we have left. This isdifferent systems collapsing. That's why the thousand scientist wrote that the climate is accelerating faster than most scientist expected. Systems. Hreatening natural eco - that's why 11,000 climate scientist have supported this. The vta should take action and establish a zero carbon transit system. It will be your firststep to calming the effects by taking this in the local area. Therefore I urge the vta to commit to establishing a zero carbon transit system. There is not more important than preventing extinction.6:08 PMThank you, i'm going to invite up our ext speakers. And call up again john johnston? You spoke, thank you, john. Sorry about that. And blair. Public speaker: anyway, getting back to where I left off, david you are declaring an emergency, that's the easy part but nothing has changed. It's getting worse. You are going in the wrong direction and you keep going in the wrong direction. You say it's green. That's why silicon valleyleadership group when they were talking about changing measure b. We are so green, but we want thehighways and it's all green washing and even the fact that you have done this whole campaign about climate restoration, there is no climate restoration. We have to reduce our emissions. That's what we have to do and we are not doing it and you can't say that we are going to have an airport and we are going to have hotels everywhere to support it because that's going into your pockets. The hotels, he transientoccupancy tax. And putting hotels everywhere and all of you have done this and you are asking the measure b, vs. Vta, diep, you write letters to say that we are lying that we have to get what the people want. We have a climate emergency, housing collapse, housing crisis, a public health crisis declared by the county. So we have the four horse man of the apocalypse and you are not changing and that is in measureb that we could change. You can't write a bill for 30 years and not change when we have emergencies and that's why we change. You are leading the politicians. We need change. We need change and that's what jen z is about. We have screwed up. We are the boomers. That's where the fossil fuel has gone. It's us. It's everything. Public speaker: hello vta board. Thank you for having us tonight. What i'm here to ell you tonight is that I realized today biking what it meant to me to hear vta board thinking about the climate emergency. It's important to understand that emergency without action is just as bad as not doing anything in the first place but I think it really does do something and it did something for me where mywhole life is it lifelong climate activist, someone born into jen z and a failure of issues and I have to hear my friends strife and it's a global world and something I have been 3 hearing since I was a child. This is a climate change that is a glimmer of light and thinking 3 maybe we are starting to get somewhere in silicon valley. We can't say that our carbon emphasi emissions are going to down because we have a climateemergency. We are working on it but you have to make it known it is an isue. Fortunately san jose set a goal to release this climate emergency by 2020. We need to find out what we need to build on that emissions to reduce carbon emissions. You have to pick up the slack. I beg you to pick it up rapidly for the next generation. Thank you very much.6:12 PMLarry, our last speaker on the consent calendar is judy young.Welcome.6:13 PMPublic speaker: thank you, if I can speak to how this green resolution can relate to coming measure b questions. Some are asking for fiscal responsibilities to voters, others are stating this can already be achieved and no plans to reallocate money at this time only to restore more practical users for public mass transit. As measure b funding was possibly initially not written with more day-to-day mass publictransportation needs but with more higher median income issues. I hope we are all coming from a smart tech revolution and can come up with a natural low from the next few years and what is needed and with the simple highway expansion ideas and to explain to the voters the good ideas that are available and tobegin to lead the fossil fuels for the first time in history. It's important that most folks in santa clara county and the bay area to note what is most workable at this time. It maybe easier for all of us to understand these things. Hope they can continue to work their creative ideas and create awareness for all of us. I hopethe board person from san jose do not become locked in a legal language on this issue. As people from all sides become set on their ideals and oinions. I hope this issue can then allow room for sensitivity andcompromise from all sides. I hope the vta will be able to allowed allow to make their own decisions. Public speaker: hi, i'm judy young. At the last meeting there was discussion of making sure there was going to be an action plan along with this resolution of declaring a climate emergency, and one thing that is very important that was talked about quite a bit at the last meeting is getting people out of their cars and into public transit. And there is numerous ideas I think that have been presented to doing that. A lot of that has to do with scheduling and where the bus routes are and on and on. But I would like to talk about one ofthe other reasons why this is important. If we keep putting unds into expanding expanding highways, eventually we are not going to have land to expand the highways to relieve congestion. I hear everybodytalking about the traffic congestion. It takes about 2 hours to drive to san francisco now and it used to take an hour, something along those lines. And at some point, there isn't going to be enough land to expandhighways to relief congestion. We definitely really need now to start really improving the public transit system and really get people out of their cars and into public transit. The public transit system needs a lot of improvement in order to do that. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, my name is -- angel. Climate activist.Thank you to the members of the board for putting this emergency declaration on the aenda. As you know public transportation is number one emissions problem in the county. We need your urgent action on the climate emergency today. Since measure b passed in 2016, the political landscape has changed a lot. Since the women's March just after the presidential election when millions filled the streets with protest across the country, citizens have been much more active and engaged. They are calling and writing and visiting their representatives to ight what they believe in. With the trump administration and putting fossil fuel above 3 our youth, citizens are way more concerned about this climate change. 56% of respondents sayclimate change is the most important issue. 60% to cut their emissions and 62% willing to vote on their candidate based on climate issues. Many young people are speaking passionately about this issue. This must be dealt with urgently. What's in our future? Looking at australia over 27 million acres have burned.That is more than 14 times the size of california and it's still burning. Can we fford such a future? The longer we wait, the more devastating it will be. Please declare a climate emergency now. Make public transit a major priority by bringing the bus fleet to up to 750 as promised by measure a. Thank you.6:19 PMHank you. i'm now going to close the public comment period. I want to make a comment about the climate resolution. We had a chance to review the resolution and asked and according to our ceo hernandez, staff is going to work on a plan and working to address the goals in the resolution. And what i'm going to be recommending is that we put that through the congestion management committee so that there is a set of eyes looking at the plan. The staff has agreed to come back to the board with any expenditures either forthe planning processes or for other kinds of initiatives that they want to take a look at so the board has an opportunity to look particularly at those initiatives and be able to access trade offs in terms of financial and outcomes. With that, I will see if there are any questions on any items or closed session. Supervisorcortese?6:20 PMI mean consent.This is the work that's going on and this is a request for on going work. This is on consent. I'm not going to suggest to change the modifications if it's a point of consent. But, I do want to point out that this resolution relative to at least to the county resolution which was the first carbon restoration resolution, those are operative words in the term of the course. The first carbon restoration resolution in the world.Since that time, several countries have signed onto it and local governments all over the united states have signed onto it. This resolution for some reason excludes that specific language, although fortunately it has one reference in the paragraph that talks about the united nations to carbon sequestration which Ithink is enough of a foothold in the resolution to do additional work. But the issue f particularly here in silicon valley of carbon restoration is a uge issue in and of itself. I want to make sure that as this is going on, we are not focused solely on what this mitigation speaks to, but again especially here in silicon valley where we have innovative companies right now in our seat focused on technology and other means toactually scrap carbon and we want to be focused on that and be a leader on that. In addition, I was told today and I don't know if it's accurate. Let's not hang our hats just yet but there is no transit agency in the world that has adopted a climate change emergency declaration. Those words are important given the movement that's going. I think this is enough to catapult us forward. I just want to make sure that wedon't lose that piece of the on going battle.6:22 PMHen we have a motion, we can add that language.6:23 PMYou want to ake the motion. there you go.Thank you for letting everybody know that it's going to the congestion management committee. I'm the chair of that committee and I have lots of passion on that subject. I wanted to make sure the members of the public realize that those are open to the public because not ma public members come to our standing committees and that's where we are going to be working on a lot f the details. I would encourage those that are worried about green washing come to those meetings where we'll talk about the details more. Sobe watching the agendas for that.Thank you very much.Unrelated but I wanted to recuse myself from 6. 4.6:24 PMThank you. anyone else?Semi related. to staff 6.5 on the memorandum, we found a good resolution in regards to a removal of a number of trees. I believe 150 or so. Initially 175 trees and initially we did not necessarily have language that would have kept them in and around that same area. So in relation to this climate emergency and totalk about it to replace these trees somewhere else throughout the city of an jose versus in and around where they are removed we felt was really a disservice to the community. Thank you staff for being able to find a resolution to that.John?I want to comment on 6.5 and register a no vote.Okay. thank you.So make my comment now?Yes.Okay, this is regarding eastridge and authorizing more money for this particular project. And what concerns me is that we as a group a while back said we needed to start looking at projects more efficiently and being a little bit ore outside of the box. We also I thought we gave direction for staff to come back and look at options or alternatives that were much more effective and financial viable. I just want to keep reminding people that we need to keep looking at new technology of doing things a new way going forward to really start actually moving people in the carbon free environment to reduce congestion. So, this project came up and 3 reminded me that we had a commitment to do it and let's not forget those issues.6:25 PMFor the record because people are listening, we have engaged a consultant and have a team of staff that have engaged and they have not stopped and to also do these two bodies of work concurrently instead ofconsecutively.6:26 PMMagdalena?I want to comment on 6.2 and 6. 5. In 6. 2, just briefly, you know, one of the issues that's going to come up as construction starts to take place along the capital expressway corridor is my oncern for, and we've talked about this in the past. But my huge concern for traffic delays especially as it pertains to the kiddos around all the schools and there is many schools ight up along the capital expressway corridor. And I was just fascinated by the pilot program that's taking place in cupertino. I really want to throw it out there.This is something we need to really look at in terms of how we transport or provide shuttle service or partner with the high school district to get those school buses up and running again because they are not.But I will tell you the difference that it makes when there is a national holiday. And I can zip through story road and the expressway. It's remarkable. I just want to be able to put it out there because whatever avenue we need to take, whatever measure we need to take to secure funding or apply for grants.6:27 PMOne thing I will recommend is perhaps when we get to the items of referral item if you can restate that.That would be great. Did you have another comment? I will remind you.Thank you so much. in terms of the 6. 5, and this is just a project that the east side has been waiting for 20 years approximately. I will keep reminding our folks and our board members as well. This was a promise that was made and I know that some don't feel entirely in support of it, but the folks on the east side really do ppreciate it. I do want to mention and glad that member peralez mentioned the 157 trees that will be removed, whatever that number is, that it takes place back in the same area. If not in the corridor, in the neighborhood that is so widely impacted. As we are talking about declaring a climate emergency, I will tell you that we don't have that same beautiful canopy on the east side of san jose thatmany other districts especially in the city of san jose get to enjoy. When we go out for a walk, our dogs suffer from heatstroke as well. So it's a reality that we are living with. I tell you this firsthand because I live there, i'm raising my children there and walks down the street are very difficult. There is no beautiful corridor to walk in and be shaded in. Thank you for that, but I wanted to be able to also put that out there.Lastly, on our declaration of climate emergency. I want to thank director cortese for bringing this to our attention and just to be able o reiterate, of course we all, I hope we don't need any convincing of what's happening to mother earth and what we might or might not leave for future generations. I know in the city of san jose with mayor liccardo at the helm, we are continued to our commitment to the agreement of ensuring our engagement to ensure responsibility stays on the right side of history, but more than staying on the right side of history, ensuring that we leave something of pride for the future generations. And as part of our commitment to the paris accord in san jose at lease least that we are committed to including our strategies to renewable energy identifying growth areas while creating life styles and creating jobs where people live withinw an advanced public transportation system. Vta plays a critical role ensuring that we fulfill those goals. I'm happy to be here an be able to declare a climate emergency via vta.6:31 PMThank you. I want to declare myself -- on 6. 1 and 6. 5. If vta is going to be engaged in the action plan, Iask if we might consider different partnerships as we think about things like energy resilience. Know the city is really interested in partnering with vta as you are deploying more electric buses.Thank you for that reminder. I want to make sure you are recusing from 6. 1, 6. 4 and 6. 5. We have a motion.Chair, i'm going to recuse on the granite rock item. I'm not sure what number that is, but on 6. 3.Supervisor cortese. and what I wanted to do is we have a motion from you for a consent, dave, and we have a second, did anybody second it? Magdalena, a second. Is there anymore discussion. Please say no.All in favor say, 'aye'.6:32 PMAye.Any opposed? all right. that pass unanimously with one no vote and two recusals. We are now moving on.Thank you, everybody. We are now moving on to item 7. 1. 7. 1. Action item - authorize the general manager to execute a contract with takis salpeas (dba transit project strategies, llc) to provide leadership, oversight and accountability in the management, administration and delivery of vta's bart silicon valley berryessa extension (phase i) to revenue service and commencement of phase ii. The contract is for a term of three years with two additional one-year options for an amount, including, incidentals, not to exceed $3,182,500. Last summer I conducted a national search for an executive manager, executive director forprograms who is experienced in high dollar programs and four qualified candidates were identified by the executive search firm. Mr. Salpeas was ranked and he has worked in the bart system and washington metro and with large consulting firms and on both domestic and nationals when he was on the private sector and tunnelling. He led mega projects in europe and the middle east as well. And the term of the ontract is a five year contract without any escalation. It has a direct cost. It has been proven for 3 years with three one year renewels. We are available for questions.6:34 PMTessa, you can speak now and then I will go to the board 3 because we have one speaker on this item.Public speaker: I guess I was talking about 7. 1 which is the bart. I am very unhappy with bart. The fact that when we have bart meetings, I have to go to oakland. That's disgusting that I have to go to oakland.There is nothing here locally and the bart is coming into my neighborhood in front of my house and I have to go to oakland to even deal with it. That's how bad bart is. On top of it, the whole thing about going to santa clara. We need to stop going to santa clara. We need to stop bart and diridon. The importance of this is you have gone too far with your governance. It's the merchants and the businesses nd labor and they are the ones that got awarded the contract to go to santa clara because and all the awards and thank you for the labor and thank you for the businesses. That's the wrong decision. That's why your governance iscorrupt. You are corrupt. He rand jury told you that you are corrupt. You need to stop what you are doing.What you are doing is wrong because you are following money, labor, jobs. We have to be thinking we are in a climate emergency. We don't just spend $6 billion when we have this yard in hayward. We can get to santa clara with the caltrain and bart is a corrupt system. They even said how bad bart is compared tocaltrain and we shouldn't be investing in it and this is what we are doing. We need to stop this and we have to talk about this climate emergency. We have no longer smoke and mirrors. We have four crisises and we have to address them. Anyway, February 11th at 6:00 p. M. , san jose city council chambers. Be there to help topple capitalism. February 11th, at 6:00 p. M. .6:37 PMI'm see if there are any comments or questions from my colleagues? Seeing none, i'm going to ask for a motion. This is for item 7. 1.I move 7.1 and authorize the general manager to execute as described in the staff report.We have a motion. do we have a second? that was glen. We have a second from rob. Any further discussion? All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously. Thank you.Thank you, madam chair. if I may, I would like to ask Mr. Salpeas to stand.There you go. welcome. [ applause ]We are moving to item 7.2.Thank you silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. . We typically provide an update on phase 1 and phase 2. I'm going to have jorge martinez give us an update on the contract. If you can specifically hone in on the issues that were raised at the last board meeting.6:38 PMGood evening. one -- as was reported, he effort on the project is addressing the discrepancies and observations made by bart during the verification phase of their acceptance of the project. On November 24th, we started with 1447 hat were total number of which 757 were agreed were impacting the start of revenue service. Since that date, we've and this slide is a little bit outdated. This was the data that we hadwhen the slide was prepared for the board meeting dated January 24th. We still had 396 discrepancies total that were open. As a subset of that 396, 67 had been identified as requiring some kind of a changeorder to address and 46 where we were discussing disputing with bart. For multiple reasons, notnecessarily the observation, but the severity of it. So we basically had 264 discrepancies that we were ableto plan and attack. As of our last report which supercedes this one here which is February 7th, we twiddledthat number down to 377 discrepancies with the same number in change order and dispute. I'm happy to report this morning that we had a meeting with bart senior operations folks. That number as of this afternoon is now a total of 295 open discrepancies. So we made a very significant jump. There arecurrently no issues in dispute. So we've managed to resolve all of those disputed items and we have 67 discrepancies that are in change orders and same issues with multiple locations. Those changes are really the ones that are the ong pole in the tent as far as the our schedule in the critical path. We are workingwith contractors to try to get optimized schedules. The current schedules we have are not acceptable. We are trying to find ways of approaching it, but all of that is feeding into the other effort that we are doing and i'm not going to use slide no. 2 because the nut of where we are is we are trying to come up with a new schedule. We are working with the fta's pmo and working with bart and to risk load the schedule. A big component of that is what can we do with these changes and as I said before, this is now thecontrolling factor to us coming up with a new forecast revenue date. We do hope to have that new schedule in march, and hopefully we were able to address the other questions that we had from the directors on both the way we classify these and our confidence level and resolving the issues. So, insummary, the current open discrepancies were down to 228, but again, many of those with the same issue with multiple locations and we have a high level of confidence that aside from the change work that we arestill trying to optimize the schedule on, we will complete those in february.6:42 PMJorge, are you one? okay, we have two public comments. Public speaker: from what I understand is you are talking about silicon valley rapid transit and that is something I worked on. The citizens are supposed to be involved and inspire our leadership. That's our role. Don't forget that, I know you are on your phone and you are contacting but we are not here just for our health. I'm only one of the lucky ones because Ihave multiple sclerosis. Many people have died, my sister died of a hemorrhageic stroke and all this talk about your great clean energy and great job, you are not doing a great job. I call it climate dumb because you are not doing enough and you are saying you are and that is the sin that greta has warned us. The person of the year. It's to say the ones that are saying their doing things are the worse because they are lying to us. We have to stop lying. We have to start telling the truth. The truth is we have fouremergencies. We know those truths. I know you even know that we have a public health emergency. The most recent one. The county has declared a county emergency 3 with the coronavirus. And I see what you are doing. I see the billboards with airplanes and sports. You are not educateing the public about what's really happening which is a climate emergency, ecological collapse and housing crisis and just -- anyway, in terms of the silicon valley rapid transit, it needs to happen on el camino real and stevens creek. You areavoiding it. In the median with bike lanes. Public speaker: you have nly one slide on the presentation. So comments that were made multiple times by the members of the board and the public. We need to know what it turns out. We want to categorize the discrepancies. We are not going to have on goals and all that we gave. Until they get closer on that, we want to know when they are going # -- bob is going to stop. --once bart stops. I would like management o address this so we know exactly where we are going with this.6:46 PMThank you, roland. I am now moving o discussions from the board.Thank you very much, I appreciate the presentation. Jorge. With regard to the discrepancies, our second slide, I know there is a prerevenue and post revenue service. Just to understand the context, does that mean that at least what's described on the first slide, the 396 total open which you say now is 200?296.Okay, 100 have been resolved in a very short period of time which is great. Are all of those 296 criticalpath discrepancies that have to be resolved before service?6:47 PMYes, I apologize for the confusion because we are using old terminology, blocks, critical. Those are notindicative of the severity of the issue. A critical is no more than a major vice versa. They really apply to, what really is important here to notice is what we are calling the original 757 that impact revenue operations, those are all equally severe because anyone of them can impact operations.I meant to say critical path, are they in the way or not?Yes. the ones that are post revenue, those will be addressed but they don't impact that revenue data.Right, the toilet dispensers in the bathroom. Of those 296 we now have, I don't expect you to know off thetop of your head, but i'm curious if you have any sense of fraction or anything, do you have any sense of what proportion of those result from the change and justifications that we had from the time we thought we were constructing this to the time that we are now trying to get it operated and roughly how many instances has bart changed the specifications.6:48 PMSpecifically that's 67 of the discrepancies that are wrapped up in I believe 12 separate changes. So, but it's 67 of those 296 are new requirements that we have agreed to implement.Got it. so roughly four. thank you very much.6:49 PMRaul and then larry and then john.Thank you for the update. the only question I have is I am curious when we'll be able to get the working group between vta and bart back on the calendar.> [inaudible].Thank you, I think those were, as we were racing for a deadline last year, they helped over come a number of hurdles. I know we recognize we have things in the way that we need to take care of an we are doing that, but at the same time, there May be hurdles that we can try to overcome by getting together and we also need to set a good precedent and practice for the next phase, right? So in being able o get together will be important. Thank you for that update. 36:50 PMThank you, john?Thank you. this sort of ties into 7. 1. When I went down to the vta board several years ago, we were $150 million below budget and ahead of schedule. So where are we now with budget compared to forecast to actual. Is there some reports that will say where we are at and and so forth? help me understand that.We do have an on going reforecast and part of that was incorporated with one of the other agenda items that is coming here when the hsa board item that is coming up right now. There was some financial data involved in preparing that board report. But we can certainly make available to the board and to the public the current financial status. We are reforecasting both the parts of the contracts and using and allocating the contingency which is where we are right now.6:51 PMMadam chair, if I may, our intent s to bring that to the next meeting.That information?Yes.We are due for an update.Okay, because we are bringing this new gentleman on to help us with the leadership. Thank you. So to me, it gives me a bench mark of where we are at right now and as we go along how we are able to stay close to those particular things. Just off the top of your head, is that $150 million surplus still with us or gone?Off the top of your head. . No- [ laughter ]6:52 PM[inaudible]The $150 million is outdated. we forecast it to be $92. That is being reforecasted because of the delays now. In march, we'll come back to you with what the remaining numbers will be. Right now it is about 92.Okay, you let me know that you are coming back in arch with that, that's greatly appreciated.If I could, i'm sure we are going to do this but to make sure this goes through anf for the board. C'mon, larry, you can handle it. Anybody? Glen?Hi, I have a simple question. I don't want to count here is 200 or 700, whatever. But of anything that bart is saying is required for revenue service whether or not we have agreed that that's an open item thatneeds to be worked on or whatever or still in the bucket of we on't agree, do they have documentation that says what the requirements of all of those are that they can hand it to us today. What I really want to getto is we don't have anything where this is a discrepancy, but they don't have clear definition that's a requirement of what it means to fix it. Does that make sense as a question?6:53 PMYes, maybe I can explain some of the process. The bart folks and there is a new team of bart people that comes in the operations and maintenance people which are separate from the ones here with the projectdevelopment. They look at the project with fresh eyes. A lot of the observations is they see what they don't expect to see in the bart system. So we have the task to explain to them whether the job was built tospecifications and there is a lot of that discussion. And yes, they are going out and doing tests. Sometimes we dispute the results of the test and we have to go back and review their methodology and looking a lot of discrepancies have disappeared because we have proven that there was something not right with the way they were looking at with a specific element. These aren't punch list items, they are observations,potential issues labeled as potential issues around operablity and we have to look at it and if something needs to be fixed we have to come up with a fix. It's not really a clear process, but yes, they do havedocumentation and we have documentation nd sometimes it's a matter of going back and retesting jointly to see what the real results are. Hopefully that explained it.6:54 PMI understood what you said, and i'm going to hold the rest of my questions.6:55 PMAll right.I'm sorry, I can't resist after member hendricks question. I'm not going to expect an answer so this will be more f a statement. That we are starting process, as we go into postmortems but a really look back because as some of us did the trip with bart members hen we went to barcelona and such and it was 3very evident back then that engineering was communicating with us but we were not having a connection with the operations people. I would like to understand what we are going to do differently, what we are asking bart to do differently so that we can get the operational elements in sooner rather than later. How do we make some changes in how we interact with one another. I'm hoping we are going to be doing that and spending an amount of time with the learned lessons before we move into full speed ahead on bart phase 2.6:56 PMGreat, thank you. this was an informational item. I'm assuming we are all pretty well-informed. Thank you very much. Jorge, I hope you feel better. We are moving on to item 7. 3. I apologize. 7. 3. Action item - authorize the general manager to amend construction contract db11002f (c700 ssh) line, track. Stations, and systems (ltss) with skanskashimmick-herzog joint venture, and its partial assignment contract db11002f (c700 ar) with aldrich/rosendin jv by $11,200,000 resulting in a combined total contract amount of $932,486,050, and increasing the general manager's contract amendment authority provided by the vtaadministrative code from 15% to 25% of this recommended amendment amount. This is going to larry.I'm going to apologize in advance for reading this. The committee met on January 23rd, reported item 7.3, 7. 5, 7. 8 on tonight's regular agenda. The first item we are taking up now is item 7. 3. 7. 3. Action item - authorize the general manager to amend construction contract db11002f (c700 ssh) line, track. Stations, and systems (ltss) with skanskashimmick-herzog joint venture, and its partial assignment contract db11002f (c700 ar) with aldrich/rosendin jv by $11,200,000 resulting in a combined total contract amount of $932,486,050, and increasing the general manager's contract amendment authority provided by the vtaadministrative code from 15% to 25% of this recommended amendment amount. That's just the title. The committee had a discussion about that long title with staff regarding the project scope of services and how the amendment will be funded. Staff confirmed this includes correcting non-conformance and implementing additional work associated with new requirements and this will come from the unallocatedcontingency from the overall budget. At the end of discussion at work committee recommended board approval. We are here to answer any questions that my colleagues May have.6:58 PMBefore we go to questions, I have two public speakers. I have going to ask tessa and roland to come forward. Public speaker: well, the problem i'm having with 7. 3 is your general manager and giving the person more power. It is a her. Basically i'm concerned about that. Ou are beautiful too, don't worry. So, was that you know, we shouldn't be giving too much more power because we have trouble with vta and the way it's being run, and so to make the decisions where 25% that she has more power to give the money away when we have a lot of problems with the whole bart, the whole thing. I really appreciate what geni said about the communication. There is just a lot of problems with vta and bart and all these things.It's a very complicated program. I didn't feel we should give more power because we really need to watch this very closely. I think it boils down again to your leadership. You are under surveillance with the whatever it's clled, those people that look at you, that group. The grand jury. Thank you, I love you. The grand jury for your leadership. And it's defunct and what we really need is a board that is picked by the people because what we have is redundancy. We have people from san jose that are basically delayers working on this board. And this is not good. We need a board that is elected and what extinction and rebellion always talks about is we can't even talk about politics and economics, but we can talk aboutbiology and physics and engineering are the only things we can talk about in this crisis that we have. That means you need to pick a climate change team to reduce the emissions. You can't assume that san jose is smart. We have to see it for truth. Public speaker: so, where do I start with this. I think the time has come to seriously look at alternatives. When I looked at it last year, I was unimpressed and to be honest with you, I think the demonstration last December was a disaster. But musk was very fast. And on the approach when I was looking at the north and the median on highway 580 gets to $600 million. And the more Ilooked at it, I said, okay, I can reduce this because it's maybe 150 or $100 million nd then I found a different alignment to the abandoned right-of-way. And look acted what he's building and we are hoping to have this next year. I looked at this thing, it's under our convention center is 3/4 of a mile and doing it for$52. 5 million. We are including three stages and then I started looking t the valley and figured out a wayto make the connection in two miles, three miles. Then I looked at what he was doing and the price point is $200 million. But if you can save $400 million, remember, this project is funded entirely out of measure a. That totally changes the picture with what we can do with supporting light rail and buses.7:03 PMAre there any comments or questions from my colleagues? John?Yes, if someone can help me, there was an item the forecast was $192 million. I would be willing to take that off line if staff want to discuss with me. I want clarity from larry this idea of the thought process forhow it works where it says additional 25% contractual authority with the remaining work and I haven't seen that before -- if you can tell me how it works.We did ask about that and that increase authority that this amendment gives to the general manager is within this contract and within the amendment to this contract. It's not general authority within theadministrative code.That's correct. the administrative code allows the general manager to increase a contract that's been approved by the board to cover contingencies. If the board approves it, it will give her additionally # -- leeway for this contract.7:04 PMI will take it off line.Thank you. all right. any other? mayor, thank yu.Thank you. in abundance of caution. If we can hear faster, the bay area coming in november. I would like to recuse myself.May I have a motion on this item?We move approval for item 7. 3.Thank you, a second from glen. Any further discussion? All in favor say, 'aye'.7:05 PMAye.Any opposed? that pass unanimously. Thank you. I apologize, mayor. Resolution approving the results of vta's 2019 monitoring program; and (2) a resolution approving vta's 2019 title vi program. These documents are required by the federal government. This is to ensure that no one is -- discriminated against rerelease regardless of race or color of origin. And this is due to the civil rights act of 19634. If the resolution is approved today, staff is prepared to submit the documents by February 14th. The discussion isin the staff report and the committee recommended adoption of the resolutions. Jay bailey is here to answer any questions that my colleagues May have.7:06 PMAll right. are there any questions on this item? I have no public comment on this item. Public speaker: I didn't eally know title vi, but now that you are talking about, there are real discrepancies in the service that we are getting to our community. We are not getting enough services to everyone. It's really gotten somuch worse, the plan is what my son and daughter are reporting to me because they take public transit.And you don't. Okay? that's the problem. My son and daughter, my son who is running for city council, leads by example. He does not have a car. He rides his bicycle, very scared he's going to die because of all of guys because you are not making it safe for him, and your children, you drive them everywhere because you don't feel it's safe for them and you are not doing anything. You are pushing the capitalistic plan and I have to worry that my son is going to die. That's what we are talking about it with my son about the hotel.You are putting a driveway. Where people are going to die in our neighborhood as you put a hotel in ourneighborhood. This is terrible and we have so many traffic injuries and you are saying it's safe for everyone. It's not safe for everything. You are not providing for the disabled that have to take transit because you are cutting the service. It's been really crap the whole service is what i'm hearing, I know you have to bring everything to the corp, but we need corporations to pay for the free electrified transit. We need climate action about everything and we need to wring it to zero as soon as we can like now. That's what we have to do. About a monitoring program, are not doing a great job. The whole program has to be relooked at and reevaluated because you made the wrong choices.7:08 PMThank you, are there any other questions or comments on this item? We have a motion from larry.I move approval and really quick encourage everyone, the title 6 report is in the agenda packet and for everyone watching, I really encourage you to review that and hang onto it. It's a good reference andimportant document for ur agency.I have a motion and second. let me comment and one question I have asked when we have done a report on this is how can we use the data to improve our services. On the one hand it's good to say we are not violating the rules. The second is what more can we do, what have we learned from this and it being really a baseline for more activity. So i'm just going to say that to staff. I want to thing a little bit more aboutthat but just real interested in having the same conversation and to think about that. Thank you very much to your team and yourself for the ood work. So, we have a motion, a second, with a request from me foradditional information. All in favor say, 'aye'.7:09 PMAye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously. We are now --One more, chair.I know you do. you are the guy. All right. Larry?All right. general manager to enter into an exclusive negotiations agreement (ena) with lincoln property company for a term of twelve (12) months for negotiation of the proposed terms and conditions of a lease option agreement (loa) for a transit-oriented development project at the cerone property. If agreement cannot be reached with lincoln property company during the ena term, authorize the general manager toenter into an ena with tmg partners. The administration of finance reviewed the item as well and the recommending action. Ron is here to provide a presentation or to answer any questions.7:10 PMIs there a desire for a presentation. I know most of us have seen this already. What i'm going to do is i'm going to public comment and i'm going to question and feedback from the board. Tessa, welcome. Public speaker: transient oriented development, I know that's part of jobs and getting the labor unions working.What's ironic is we live on stockton avenue and you are planning a hotel in our transient orienteddevelopment location. That's where we are supposed to live and yet you are putting hotels. Now you are dealing with this transient oriented development and that's where we are bickering and yet, we are notthinking about that we need to have housing near transit. That's what s. B. 50 was about. In the spirit of .B. 50, with the state law, we are saying we need to be building housing and multiple housing and the missing middle housing. And towards transient oriented development, that's good, but on the one hand, you are doing the opposite which is putting hotels everywhere. It's all over our city and we have to then think about here we are in the transient oriented development corridor half a mile from google village and transit. Very rich walkable neighborhood and you are turning it into a hotel. Here is your hypocrisy and you keep doing that to our neighborhood. I want to thank you, mayor liccardo, you used the word resiliency.That's your mantra after we shut off the electric and now we have this coronavirus. We have to be focusing on building housing and that needs o be our transient oriented development. It needs to be about housing and it has to be about the other emergencies, but that's one thing that really eeds to happen. So, you are not doing that when you put hotels everywhere. When we have a great neighborhood of homes and nowyou are not even allowing housing in our neighborhood. So that's a hip cypohypocrisy.7:12 PMThank you, ro#Roland? public speaker: very briefly, we had this discussion this morning. What I want o share with you is a discussion I had off line afterwards. Generally speaking the cities want hotels because of the transientoriented development tax. And when we have public land here that's going to be used to build hotels, it's that that tax be actually deposited into an affordable housing fund that the agency is responsible for.Thank you.7:13 PMThank you.If there are no further questions, I would move approval.We have a motion and second. are here any questions?7:14 PMI'm recusing myself under government code section 30408.I would like to reaccuse myself from the same section.No more iscussion on that item.I want to point out that this could be some opportunities to start applying our climate resolution to some of the discussions and negotiations about the materials used and and so forth in this project.That's a great idea. thank you.I would just say, in anf we saw a presentation about what these projects are and at least what is being proposed, nothing is defined, these are very environmentally positive friendly proposals being made and when we get through the process going through, I think everyone will be very positively feel good about what is being proposed and how it relates to the environment.So any of the comments or questions?On this item, we have a motion and a second. The only thing I would add is I did ask for staff to rethink the process we use for how these items get discussed and come back to the board. I know evelyn was going to take a look at that. I would be more interested about that. So no more comments or questions, all in favor say, 'aye'.7:15 PMAye.Any opposed? and then we have one abstention. That passes, two abstentions. Thank you. I'm sorry, tworecusals. Thank you. Thank you very much. It takes a village. All right. That passes with 2 recusals. We are going to skip item 7. 6 and 7. 7 because we discussed this on consent. Now we are going to item 7. 8.7:16 PMI'm not sure if anybody is going to speak specifically to this item. Welcome. 7. 8. Action item - adopt a newexpress bus partnership program and a new pilot vanpool subsidy program for implementation in April 2020.Our express but partnership. this is to adopt a new express bus partnership and a new program for implementation in april. This was reviewed by anf, cmpp and sstpo, and our advisory committee. Staff's recommendation will change the bus network and invite party partnerships to reduce the cost. Staff was able to identify partners. I want to say how pleased I am with their work. The proposed action alsoincludes van for public and express services. Janis, ramos will be our senior transportation planner and here to provide a brief presentation.7:17 PMThank you for that introduction.So just to take a quick moment to reflect on what led us to this program. You recall the most recent talked about the network date back to early last year when we discussed a new transit service plan. With that,came the directive from the board to reduce the express bus program by about half. In response to the overwhelming feedback that we received from our community we've actually decided to xplore rather thancutting specific routes and eliminating trips on other express routes that we decided to propose at developing a partnership odel to inviting institutions. Since this directive was given to us last may, the development of this partnership included various things such as the express bus study, extensive outreach with potential partners along the engagement route and flyers and person outreach on board express bus routes to speak to the riders themselves to get an engage of how they felt about these proposals and last but not least a partnership framework to help guide this in future years to come. So brings our partnershipprogram here. It will involve frequent ollaboration with vta staff as well as the partners and essentially this would involve any third party partner who is willing to work on these express bus services with vta. That partner will contribute 25% towards the cost of the route and work with the staff on the routes and schedules on the routes they choose to sponsor. Performance monitoring will be a big component of that.These are the three metrics that we will heavily monitor as e move forward with this program. A bigbenefit of this to any of the partners who are going to partner with vta, their employees and members of the partners will ride for free. Looking into 2020 her for this initial roll out of the program, effective this april, vta will continue o operate these five routes. Thanks to sponsors at stanford research and networksand lockheed martin. This will cover 90% of express bus riders. With this, we'll be able to reduce the cost of the express bus program by well over half. The proposed network that you saw on the previous slide willcost $2. 4 million to vta and with that cost, we'll be able to drop down the net cost per rider down to $20.Speaking of the second component of this item, we are also considering a vanpool subsidy pilot rogramthat we are looking forward to implementing in April as well in conjunction with our partnership program.This pilot program is intended to supplement mtc's existing vanpool subsidy program and how it would work is that anyone interested in joining a vanpool can apply through mtc's program, join a new one or join an existing vanpool and they would be able to take advantage of mtc's $300 per month subsidy.7:21 PMA couple more that we would like to put towards this pilot program, one problem is the vanpool would have to qualify and apply for mtc's program. We would like to have at least four people in that vanpool. Avanpool must begin with santa clara county and we are capping this to the first 20 van pools result in a cost to vta at - $100,000 in this initial roll out. These of course are a couple pictures of seven seater and 15 seater vehicle that mtc leases out to enterprise. As I wrap up here my presentation, these are twoprograms that we are very much looking forward o be involved in these stages working with our express buses as well as exploring vanpools with our current van riders and looking into other commute solutions.So with that, i'm happy to take any questions.7:22 PMQuestions and i'm going to start with jeannie and go to john and larry.Thank you. first I want to start out by saying i'm really excited about this program. But 3 I do have some few clarifying questions. When we talk about the 25%, i'm sorry my voice May go now the here. 25% partner contribution, can you clarify that. So you have for example stanford research doing one of theroutes. They are going to pay 25%. You've got another pilot that has two companies June per andlockheed marktin, are they each paying 25%?To your question for June per network and lockheed martin, they are paying that 25% collectively. They worked that amongst themselves to pay collectively 25%. It's not 50%. It's not 25 each, but 25% as awhole to cover the operating cost of route 121.7:23 PMThat's what e are setting because we are doing this as a pilot.The express bus partnership isn't so much a pilot. We do want to roll this out beyond a 12 month period, but on an annual basis, we do want to review and continue monitoring. After this 12 month period, we are willing to look at other markets other than these express buses themselves. We are also open to partneringwith other companies that May not have been able to join us in this first year.I would hope that we would reconsider evaluating that because if you have three companies come in and partner in this, you know, with the 25 percent cost recovery, it seems to me there should be a benefit to the company as well as a benefit to vta on the financial side. I'm hoping we might look at some scale or other way of looking at that.7:24 PMDirector bruin.We are not charging per company, but charging per line. If a line is able to go to multiple companies, that's what they subsidize.I understand that, but if it's going to multiple companies and costing the increase in ridership, instead of having, if you have three companies, instead of them dividing 25%, why aren't we sitting here saying, the minimum is 25%, you get this many companies, it May go up. It still cost less for them the company but would increase our cost recovery. Let me put it this way, it feels too much like a sbsidy. My next question deals with metrics and in our staff report we are talking about additional metrics which works extremelywell for local bus services but not ideal for dedicated services. The question I ask is can we expand our metrics to also include vehicle miles travels and understand the impact we are having in terms of vehicle miles travels going back to the climate crisis and our opportunity to try to look at things in that lens as well. And also to look at with our partners because they are going to have to evaluate what is notbeneficial to them to incorporate the metrics they need into our metrics as well so we have a more complete set of metrics.7:25 PMYes, thank you. we have a lot more questions for you.Then the last question.She wasn't even done.The last question we have in terms of the vanpool subsidy, I know we are going to support this and limit this within santa clara county, but out of curiosity, when we do this, is there any point along the way todetermine whether or not there is a demand for this type of service across county boundaries. Not to say that we would do that, but if we have an understanding of demand, it helps us look at futures if this is a successful program.7:26 PMYes, we will take a look at that and as we had mentioned before, 80% of the traffic that is generated here from the people that live here. So we have a problem in this county.I understand that.I actually think that is a great idea. Thank you.John?You stole a little bit of my thunder there but I have a question for you. [ laughter ]I shouldn't ride with you anymore. [ laughter ]Keeping an open mind and following up with what jeannie said of going across county line, I met with specifically the bus route coming out of fremont down to north bay shore, and they are still very interested in partnering. But, they said that they you guys 3 stopped that particular one. Is there a possibility withfurther discussions that you can consider it because they are willing to go with light rail and north bay park. Would you consider putting it back on or if these vans were available across county line, would thatbe an option?7:27 PMThis is ay terry, the planning service manager. The question is whether do we have an appetite and/or resources to go across county lines. The reason we want to keep it within the county is to see theoperation this year. We thought let's start with santa clara county and in a year later when we come to talk about the 2022 program, that's really a board decision if you want to allocate resources to go across county line. It's a policy decision.7:28 PMForget the van, what if they are willing to subsidize to your requirements?It's the same answer. for now, for this program in 2020 program from April to next year, we have decided that let's focus on the express bus routes that are within the county since that's the market that theseexpress routes are serving today to try to stop in that row of reducing the service. That's why we are holding it for this year.Okay, i'm going to try another. Let's put on our cma hat, congestion management agency. We had a pretty good discussion about this particular and vehicle miles traveler and what we are trying to do withgreenhouse gasses. If we start looking through that lens, how would that affect what we are trying to do because here you are trying to constrict expresslanes or express buses, and yet it's sort ofcounterproductive to our cma hat and climate hat. So as we go forward, will you start looking at again through a different lens?7:29 PMYeah, let me answer a little bit ore articulately. This summer when we go out to say to the employer and institutional world, hey, do you want a sponsor, if we get an interest from folks who ant to sponsor across county lines, we bring this to the board to say it's an option. We did not get any committed interest that was willing to put money on the table for any routes that cross county lines for this program. It's not that we held it back. You are not seeing it because there was no interest with money.7:30 PMI dropping the across county lines, you are looking at other bus routes in the area. So that's why if we going to do it, we had conversation where you had people that take a bus with 20 eople on it, hypothetically, would have to drop a bus. Would that create more greenhouse gasses and more vehicle miles traveled than if you just had the one bus. That's the type of lens. It's sort of etorical. But are we thinking about that because my time on the cmpp, we haven't really started talking about trying to do that to really give people options and really try to take care of the reducing of the greenhouse gas.I'm going to intervene here and I think that's a good discussion to have when they bring up the environmental work because I think that's what was being talked about earlier as one of the trade offs.Thank you.7:31 PMAnything else??No, I just wanted to get that on the table.I'm going to encourage you to work with rob on that.Thank you.Just a question. this hadn't occurred to me before. We have 3 lots of these routes today that get called off due to drivers, lack of drivers. It's very at times it's very inconsistent. But now we are asking for private employers to help fund these. So the reliability, it seems like it needs to be better because it's not just our money, someone else is helping pay for this service. Is there someway we can have some kind ofassurance and drivers and availability of back up to keep this limited service intact and on schedule?Yes, it's a good question. the short answer is yes. We have been thinking a lot about this lately and convened discussions amongst operations folks, occ, operations control center and dispatchers. The best answer and the best solution here is to really prioritize these outes especially as you mention in the future when we have a third party paying for a portion of them. We have already instituted new ractices and processes in our dispatch system to clearly identify the dispatchers when they are assigning out routesthat these are priorities that will include school routes and express ways. If you compare six months ago how we were doing, it wasn't good enough but we are doing better now. It just requires a lot of focus and attention and training with our personnel just to make sure that again, the answer is prioritizing these trips to make sure if nothing else, these got to go out.7:32 PMWe are doing that, we are prioritizing these trips.7:33 PMWe are also doing a much better job of informing drivers when we are not able to come through and putting out service notices. I have been watching the complaints come in and hey have dropped considerably. And when we inform them they can't make it.Especially with these buses, the longer haul ones, there is no other options for those riders.Thank you, larry.Thanks.One thing I would just recommend hat I think that's a good discussion for tpno to really dive into that.Raul?Yes. looking at the screen that we have here. I'm wondering f we can utilize a hybrid seven seat vehicles.And I don't believe there is a hybrid yet 15 seater, but in relation to the climate emergency we just declared, if we are using enterprise, i'm assuming they should have some of those vehicles availableespecially if we are only going to need handful at most. Could we not make that a requirement in our program that to the extent they are available that we utilize a hybrid seven seater now and once they are aailable, the same requirement for 15 seaters. I would ask if staff doesn't take any issue with that, I would like to add that as an amendment to this item.7:34 PMNo issue and we will pursue that with mtc and enterprise.Okay, I will move approval.Before we make a motion, we discussed that in anf and it's really, i'm not sure we should add that to our motion yet because mtc is one that has to define that.I think it's fine and let me say why. Even if they tell us know, if there is a demand, there is feedback on demand. I'm okay with taking the motion. We'll take a motion and then go to the public. Sorry about that.7:35 PMWe have a motion. do we have a sending? all right. Continued discussion? Mayor and then tessa, I will come back out.First of all, thank you and kudos, the fact that 97% of the riders have their routes that is a testament to where we started and one of you guys did after I reached out. Thank you for that. I have got communication today with mary and she's concerned about 101 and that involves our intracounty bucket of routes to warm springs, is that right?7:36 PMNo. it falls in the bucket to bart to san jose. We are bringing bart here and we don't have to go to bart anymore and we'll have the non-stop service between san jose state and the bart.Okay, I guess the here is relative, right? She has two concerns. She expressed first that there is a cost issue to students who would otherwise to have ride the bus and now bart 3 and the multiple from having to go to one system from bart to warm springs and then, I guess, well eventually bart to milpitas or rather berryessa and take the 500. So, I guess the question is could somebody on staff reach out to charlie from san jose state and at least talk to them through this and maybe the concerns can be easily addressed with more information, but it also sounds like they are really clinging to this bus. That there May be an opportunity if there happens to be other employers. We have a lot of employers downtown and they will be and zoom and thers if they feel that the redundancy is not so redundant.7:37 PMI guess, mayor, thank you for that suggestion. I will commit to meeting with Dr. Papazian and charlie at san jose state. I think there is opportunities for more conversations around the service and our efforts toreduce congestion.Thank you very much. I appreciate it.I will just associate myself with those comments by the mayor. It's been a concern of mine. I want to be on the opposite zone of cutting anything as it relates to bus. But I also appreciate the challenges she has raised. We have a motion on the floor and three public comments. I'm going to invite monica and tessa and roland. Public speaker: thank you. I was going to remind everybody about my daughter. I haven't 25-year-old daughter and she - takes the train to work at google. We live on stockton avenue and she's able to take the college park to get to google. The reason i'm 3 connecting that is this is a neighborhood we live in. We are able to use the transit and this is what you need to be promoting in our community isneighborhoods that are able to have, that have the rich transit so we can use it and not to undermine it through growth and development through hotels. We need to live here and they are saying that san jose is a best place to raise kids. Yeah, I did a great job and raised my kids. I was their teacher too. I home schooled until the ninth grade. We are mnimizing. We need housing near transit. So that's just the one issue. Then, that's why I know hotel and housing. Also the issue with our companies. They need to pay a lot more. 25% is not enough. They need to pay a lot more. We need to electrify all the buses. Raul says he goes half way measures of hybrid. That is still external combustion engines. China does it. They have 100,000 in each city. They need to pay a lot more and I think they even need to give benefits to the people that take the bus and trains because we live in a very polluted area to live near transit. We should be given a bonus. Public speaker: hi, my name is monica melon at san jose state. I want to make one last effort to try to save the 181 express. As I previously said in my comments that the majority of the students are commuting everyday. We have 10,000 smart passengers which is really a lot considering our public population and we are about 17% of vta's at the moment ridership. The argument that the 181 duplicates bart service has been made some times but I think that really ignores the equitability 3 and affordability issue this with. Yesterday I took the 181 to warm springs and I paid $0 and when bart opens, I have to pay $3. A lot of people go to san jose state and that's a huge burden. I really appreciate when you have this option because this is a huge portion of our ridership and I don't want o see ore land that can be used for student housing. Thank you. Public speaker: essentially i'm going to second what monica and what was said regarding the 181. I use it and I also get a free traffic. It's free. It's so much more convenient to go from warm springs to downtown and switch. That's the way I go to san francisco. And to the point thatdirector peralez made, the 15 feet, they are going to have to go to the highway. The mercedes has done one. The new vw will be electric. Public speaker: good evening, board members. Eugene bradley. Silicon valley transit. I like the prior speakers comment regarding 181. It goes back to the days when it was los gatos. Isn't that an interesting fact when bart first opened. One concern that i'm looking at regarding the partnership. Silicon valley is a 24 hour economy. It does not run 9-5 like bank does. People work all sorts of time. I know because in my day job I have to work random hours until 3:00 in the morning fixing computers. I have a 24 duty job like silicon valley is a 24 hour economy. As soon as you stabilize the situation regarding the driver shortage which looks like it's still happening but still a bit to go. One thing that needs to be looked at is expanding these express buses into all day service. The 9-5, 2-6 buses a day from weekday morning 2-6 buses per shift on weekdays only, not good enough. You don't even have enough ridership. So long-term, there should be plans to expand these express buses into all day service because our traffic is all day. Our express buses need to work all day as well. Thank you.7:44 PMThank you very much. with that, we had a motion and second and I just wanted to make one comment on this. One, I really want to make sure we are having a conversation with san jose state and as inure # # -- nuria was reminding me. I took the bus to get to san jose state. I know the route it takes and every twistey turn. That being said, I want to say I want to make sure wherever possible, that we arecomfortably eginning to get in a position where we can expand services. I'm really pleased with the reduction that you are also looking at options but I remain concerned about making sure that the people who can't afford bart and I think there are many still have options and I want to make sure we are thinking about that. We have a motion and sending.7:45 PMCan I make a comment on what you just said? I want to remind to look into is that bart is one of the agencies participating in the pilot for the means based fare. That is supposed to be starting in the April tmeframe. So that May also timing wise ay help.That is such a great point and one other thing that I will just add to that is that I also think that one of the things that we are going to have to reconsider is our partnership with the eco pass and the structure of that pass with the means base fares and how that is going to blend together and the implication for san jose and the other institutions. I really appreciate you stating that. We have a motion and sending. All in favor say, 'aye'.7:46 PMAye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously. I do want to thank the so to speakers for joining us. We have one, I made an error which I want to reconsider item 6. 3. Because I voted yes, I can do that. I need a motion and second not from dave because he did the motion. This is granite rock. Anybody else? Can we get a motion from glen.I move 6.3. authorize the general manager to execute the contract as stated in the staff report.A motion and second. rigorous debate. All in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? thank you. with glen, two recusals. All right, we are now going to the general manager's report.7:47 PMThank you very much, madam chair. Members of the board, I have to say we are batting better than 300 with the federal transit administration. Last week, I participated on a panel in washington d. C. For humantrafficking and they asked for providers to sign a pledge to stop human trafficking. At that event, we were informed that we would be receiving one of 24 grants, $350,000 grant that will enable us to launch the program that we created that's called 'not on transit' the goal of this project is to enhance awareness of human trafficking through education and training and outreach. The not on transit project, we were able tocollaborate in our application with the santa clara county office of women's policy together with the transportation institute. So working all three of us we will create this program, we will create videos and working on a major marketing around, well, not marketing, but educational component on our buses nd trains and our stations and bus stops where we are going to be not only talking about human trafficking but providing information to those who are victims so they can find the support that they need. New to the u. S. Dot and transit administration. Also I want to inform you on talking about bart, next tuesday, we are going to be hosting the second industry forum for the bart phase 2 program where we are invitingcontractors and consultants to do a presentation on the project and start getting some feedback and ideas on how to go about the actual construction methodologies for implementing this project. We are lookingforward to, we have over 400 people that have signed, I think we are in the 400 frame of individuals and representatives from companies that are coming and it's an opportunity for small businesses, disadvantaged businesses and women owned businesses and talking about our fees and contract in the future. That's happening next Tuesday at the double tree hotel in san jose. Another item I wanted to pointout because this is going to be important, the bart police and regional law enforcement and agencies will be conducting a grant funded public training exercise t the berryessa north san jose transportation centerfrom February 9th-february 22nd. This is going to look as if somebody bad is happening and it's really part of their training. A 14 day active shooter training. The training is going to respond to various locations in an around our future bart stations including the elevated platform and the vta it's and next to the policefacility. This also will include simulated shots. The customers are being advised hrough e-mails and are signs throughout the berryessa station in multiple languages so the community is aware that this is just an exercise. We are asking that we spread the word on this. We are going to be working very closely of course with the city of san jose and others to ensure that if there are any questions or concerns, that don't make it to our customer service line but make it to a 411 or 911 that they have the appropriate information as to what's going on. On another note, this morning participated in the santa clara county department of aging and adult services. They hosted a summit on senior transportation services. I moderated a panel with participants from the city of san jose's vision zero program, the saratoga senior services center and the walk san jose in addition to the berryessa transportation institute. It was excellent information provided to all the seniors in attendance. As important was the answers to many questions around the need to standardize information, standardize signage and ensure that cities when they are approving development proposals that there is adequate sidewalks, not only that they meet the ada standards, but they are wide enough to accommodate all the different devices that seniors need to be able to move throughout heir communities. Just as a segue to today's action by the board and approving the climate emergencydeclaration, we are again committed to making sure that when we develop our climate action that we have specific actions and goals that we will attain and activities. One thing is to bring more focus and attention to this important issue. We are planning a summit that's going to engage the youth from throughout santa clara county in this advocacy effort as it pertains to transportation and sustaining our planet. We have been in connection with a variety of leaders in the youth advocacy community to form a working group that will help set the agenda for the event that we are calling beating climate change transportation policy for climate action. We want to engage those who have been coming to our board meetings with bringing their energy and their passion around this very important issue. So far we have had commitments from the silicon valley youth climate action, the transportation institute and the offices of both board memberscortese an chavez. We intend to involve the advocates here tonight and those participating throughout andleaders in our community and researchers. Together we will continue vta's work on climate change and outcomes and feeding a lot of the information that is going to be resulting from this summit. So I encourage the rest of our board members. If this is something that is of interest, we will be working directly with your offices or with you so that we can have a robust agenda and 3 a good program. We are targeting to do this this spring. With that, i'm going to transition to our ridership repor report. June is here.Before he speaks, I would like to underscore a couple things. The first one is as we talk about our new transit service plan, we are not cutting service and I have to continue to say that because i'm still getting e-mails from members of the public and phone calls about why we are cutting service. We are not cutting service. E are keeping the same service hours. We are reallocating those services to those lines that theboard had approved as the ones that we are labeling our frequency lines. And we are investing the dollars where the high ridership is and looking to work with all of you for solutions those areas that they are getting less frequency of service and then of exploring some of these options and e talked about the vanpool which is going to be one opportunity, but of course there are other opportunities that together with cities and proposals that will be coming in through our innovation program in measure b will help us start looking at how we close some of these gaps. We are going to be providing updates on the newtransportation service plan at the next stpo. Now I want to turn to June to talk about what is happening with our ridership now.7:56 PM> [inaudible]Thank you, the slides in front of you are the results for December 2009 ridership. This is the same report that presented at the middle of january. Although, it was preliminary. Thank you. So the results weresystem wide ridership is down. Continues to go down at the end of December 2019 at 4. 7 system wide with bus down at 5. 3, and light rail 2. 7%. It's worth month. Hat this is the final - as our general manager alluded to that this is he final month that we do not have the transit service plan. We implemented newtransit service plan in December 28. Four days out of December we started off the year with that month anyway with the new transit service plan. The contributors to the decline in ridership we believe is part of it is how the week or the holidays fell we call it dead week, both christmas and new year's fell on a wednesday. Many people took those two weeks off and we know that rain affects our ridership and 40% more rain in the first week of december. That's also an impact to our ridership. In terms of our productivitymeasure, we ended December 2019 with 18. 6 boardings per revenue hour and light rain, 15. 1 boardings per hour. That's important to note as I go through the slides here later. The other contributors too that at least half of the routes are routes that are due for cancellation based on the new transit service plan.These # this chart depicts the top route on the left side of the chart. On a 12 month of the rolling average t left side continue to trend up and the ones on the right side of the chart are the ones that continue to turn down to negative 13%. All of these routes are on the decline with the exception of the two which are planned to be discontinue or reconfigured n the new transit service plan.7:58 PMSo in the month of december, we had four dates that we started the new transit service plan on December 28th. So we had four days. About two weekdays, and one Saturday and sunday, as you can see. It shows some promise, I know it's only four days out of the month. So we split them up in terms f the ent days and all with the average and it's showing that the numbers are down. This is very small number because we had only four days in the month of december. For ntsp, prior to that, there are two quarters in fiscal year 2020 ending december. The bus ridership productivity was 20 boardings per revenue hour, our light railwas 58. 7 boardings per revenue hour. When we looked at the boardings per revenue hour on these ntspdays that i'm presenting here it was showing some promise at least cursory level review on the January data that we are seeing right now. It seems on the bus side is 23. 8. Or the boardings per revenue and light rail 17. 8. It's lower, but it's showing some promise and something to look forward to in terms of the new transit service plan. Just additional information like I mentioned we did have the four days with the typical new year's eve free ride days and for ntsp free service. We had 2, 49ers games and that included many riders. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.8:00 PMAny questions? hearing none, the next update is on the safety and security statistics. I'm going ask captain lara.8:01 PMGood evening, the safety report as they compare to december. We had 134 reports? January and made 109 arrest. Now i'm doing a deeper dive into statistics from last year as they compared to previous years.You heard me speak in the past about vta's security program made up of sworn deputies, private security and vta inspectors. There is over 21 hundred additional set of eyes and ears out there. We put an emphasis in the past few years to enhance the overall system security. I really think that ffort is paying off as we solve more cases and prevent crimes from occurring working with vta employees particularlyoperators. I think this is reflect in some of the trends that I will show you tonight. We have had a few challenges last year s we did see an increase in calls for service as well as some additional demands like a winner 49er season. Overall we did very well. We saw fewer serious or violent incidents last year. We had a10% drop in violence or incidents in the previous year and even a greater drop compared to 2017. We are very please withdraw this downward trend. The portion of part one of the crime report data which coverscrimes against persons, murder, rape, robbery and aggravated battery. We see very few to no rapes on the homicides system but we do see robberies. Consistent with the previous slide t chart shows a three year downward trend in robberies. The next chart shows aggravated batteries which are the more serious felonies that are likely to cause injury or death. We have seen more in 2019 with aggravated battery compared to 2018. Compared to 2017, it still shows a downward trend for three year overall.8:03 PMOne of our fundamental areas of focus is the protection of vta employees. Assault on vta operators are very concerning and not be tolerated. Addressing this will be with the vta employees themselves and this isa great example of the partnership. Since he's in the room, I want to thank john courtney who has been working with me as we worked with the atu over the past few years as we really encourage operators with cooperating with investigations. As I reported in the past, there was an effort by vta operators not wanting to file for the assaults. We knew they were occurring because we were responding to altercations and when it's a misdemeanor, unless the deputy see's the crime incur, we can't take enforcement action. We need to get the cooperation from the victim. We worked very hard with atu and atu really worked with their membership. We went to all new employee orientation. Really encouraging indicating encouragingencouraging educating and encouraging their cooperation and preventing aggravated battery. We predicted the simple batteries would go up s were being reported. We were going 2-3 simple batteries a month, aswe get closer to the 27 number we see now this past year. However promising as a result of this joint effort, we have seen a reduction of the aggravated battery which is the bottom line here and that is the most serious battery. I wanted to commend atu and operators for working with us on that. And this concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.8:06 PMAre there any questions for captain larry?With the misdemeanor, if the person cooperates with you, are they cited, are they taken down. Are they processed? What is the process?Both, many times they are cited. If we determine there is a likelihood of recurrence at that point, we will arrest and book at that time. But if it is a misdemeanor, we do also give them a ctation.When you do arrest them and take them down, is it a no bail type of situation. Do they stay anytime in lock up?Not usually. they are usually out. This is one of the reasons where we really want to aggressively engage with the simple batteries because we do have some of the same violators that cause problems on thesystem a lot. We have had some success with bringing multiple reports to the district attorney and following that case through the justice system, get is probation orders on the back end. That gives us more enforcement action if they come on the system and if they are prevented from being on the system, we can arrest them.8:07 PMThen you arrest them nd they get cited and released the same day?Unfortunately, yes. a lot of times that's true.8:08 PMOther comments or questions?Have one last item. so the last item is 8. 1. A which is a government update which is in your reading folder.Thank you very much. we are going to our public speakers. I'm going to ask folks to come up. Public speaker: thank you so much for your lexibility and your accommodations. We appreciate it. Basically, it was very depressing. That was very sad this whole thing. The human trafficking, the active shooter, the vision zero, people dying and all the attacks on the bus. Anyway, getting back to human trafficking and shooters shooter shooter. Specifically human trafficking. We need to start thinking about the jobs. Myhusband who is I climate scientist and biologist, he says that we don't talk about economy. We don't talk about politics or religion. We have to talk about biology, physics and engineering. So, we have to really think about how we are developing our communities and when we have human trafficking, what you are doing in our community of putting this hotel in our residential neighborhood, actually it is by beller manstudents that go by my home evidenc everyday. That's the time type of neighborhood we have and you areputting a hotel with full of vices. And we have a salvation army. We have to focus on resiliency. That's zoning. You don't put things together like a hotel full of vice, a monument of vice is what a hotel is about.And a bar. And put it into our residential neighborhood where we have salvation army is our neighbor, and we have beller man, the students. This is what the students are facing. And it's your fault. It's the way you are thinking. You are not really, we have to have the active shooter thing. We are not addressing theproblems in our neighborhood. And in our neighborhood, we almost had a killing because of the way cars drive.8:10 PMThank you.Welcome. public speaker: I won't even be 45 seconds. I want to say thank you. A few years ago I waswaving my arms because a female was here and broke her jaw. We have to focus on our grievance. He met with us right away and brings us in and shows us these videos and he's at the safety meetings. For everything that happened, we want to thank you for your efforts. I think the word on the street is out there that if you touch an operator or transportation frontline worn working -- worker, there is a price topay. I want to thank the captain for that.8:11 PMPublic speaker: good evening, board members. We didn't get an update on the driver shortage. I think now the priority knew is express buses and school trips. It's great to getting people to schools schools, every time there is a need for school buses, I understand vta is going to hire more bus drivers. I would like to know how many were hired this month to address the driver shortage. Thank you.8:12 PMThank yu, eugene.Omar is our last speaker n this item. Public speaker: hi, I wanted to comment on the general manager'sreport a bit. I'm interested in this is going to be working with human trafficking issues with the bus line.I'm eally interested how the vta bus and public transit bus lines can be a sanctuary for people. And it does an incredible service in that way. So I thank you for this human trafficking work that you will be doing. It does bring up for myself that you know, i'm sorry to say, but with your new logo, I think it creates acertain amount of possible fear that doesn't give people that feeling of sanctuary that they can trust the bus and they can go to the bus and feel safety and comfort in taking the bus. Exactly that, they can feel asense of safety. So i'm very worried about the logo. I hope it's an issue to talk about. Any other it has its purpose and intentions. It's something to think about and we can all work on it. To mention, you also talked about vision zero and in san jose, there is going to be some new issues with vision zero. I wanted to remind vision zero is a very wide open idea of green sustainability and community harmony. You know, issues that are real positive and hopeful and the ideas of law enforcement and technology I feel should be a more auxiliary role with vision zero if you talk about things with vision zero and surveillance technology, I hope it can be with real good open guidelines. This is a time where tech and guidelines can walk hand in hand together. Thank you.8:14 PMThank you.Omar, you are the last speaker on this item. Public speaker: hi, my name is omar chatty. I think it's a goodtime to describe this, and i'm concerned about the open county and open borders issue that we have and the county is worse than the state as to policy and the family larson knows. My understanding is that sheriff doesn't collect criminal aliens. I'm talking about the one arrested after nine incidents. It would be nice to know how many incidents and what category of criminal illegal aliens are involved in. It would be helpful to understand the cost and impact for decision makers such as yourself. As the border wall goes up and as we are seeing the illegal alien dropping because of apprehension in mexico, it would be nice to see the trend of this dropping in data because it might be helpful understanding feedback in public policy. That way we can track it in the future. I just being #, we would all like a safe environment. And when you cantrack it, what you measure, you can fix. Thank you.8:16 PMAll right. on that, there is no action to be taken, we are moving to item 8. 2. This is the chairperson's report. I wanted to announce that rsm, the firm that provides our auditor services asked to be releasedfrom their current contract. In part they had some significant changes in their company and I wanted to let all of you know that the staff is working to release a new rfq or rfp to make a transition. In the meantime we have the staff assuming some of those responsibilities. Cott is gone, but wanted to say a big thank you to him. With that being said, i'm grateful for their work and interested in who else is out in the market and maybe some who May want to reestablish a partnership with us. I'm going to item 8. 3. 8. 3. Items of concern and referral to administration8:17 PMYes, this has to do with the cupertino program to make sure we are not forgotten from the construction.It's one of the major arteries on the east side of san jose and connects from evergreen which is district 8 or coming in from the heartland of district 5, east side san jose. As it is, e are already grid locked but I can't imagine what it's going to be when construction is underway. My biggest concern under the grid lock is how we get our kiddos to school on time because I just anticipate there is going to be many delays and parents are going to be stuck with their little ones or their teenagers a little bit longer than they should. As a mother of three teenagers. But I love the rides. It's nice when we are not ust sitting there. If there isanyway we can apply or if the city of san jose can apply or give us some guidance. I would love to see apartnership with the school district and alum rock school district to see how we can get kids safer toschool.8:18 PMThank you. john and then jamie.This is the concern sr 237. I was reading their operational report for October through December 19th, and one of the goals primary objectives of the east express lane was to provide congestion relief through moreeffective use of existing roadways. As you read into the report, it states the sr 237 express lane does experience high congestion levels during the peak commute periods primarily due to the limited lanes and high concentration of merging traffic from on ramps and downstream congestion beyond the expresslanes especially on 101 and I 80. This continue to maintain speed differential between 5-15 miles per hour in the most congested section of the corridors of the peak hours during the period. The general purpose.8:19 PMJohn, did you want to make a referral?Yes, let me finish reading this and finish it up with. -- the general purpose lanes continue to be congested and the most congested segment in the northbound and eastbound lanes. My request is we are talkingabout justice and those people that can't afford to pay for transit are being stuck in slow traffic. If there is someway o address how we can make it equitable that everybody can have an opportunity or go back and look back at this express lane and what we are trying to accomplish.8:20 PMWe are going to to refer that to staff. The reason i'm going to be a little bit quick with you guys on these is these are not agendaized. If you are referring to staff, i'm going to ask you to refine it and be clear about it because we can't comment on it. No problem, I just wanted to be clear with everyone. Go ahead, jeannie.8:21 PMOne referral and one comment. in terms of the referral. Mtc partnered with ucla and did a transit study and would like o see if whether or not staff would like to consider that presentation done here with vta. That would be my request. Cynthia, I didn't know if you were going to make a comment. As you notice the agenda, there was a change to the structure of the agenda that is due to the ad hoc and work being done and thanks to cindy's leadership as chair, we had this instructed and helped introduce the items and share the discussions. I thought that was very effective and I appreciate cindy chair or staff whoever the catalyst for making that change so expeditiously. I thought it was effective tonight.Great, hank you. are there any other items of concern? Seeing none, are there any announcements?Seeing none, we are going to move to closed session. And i'm going to let my colleagues know that this isgoing to be about 30 minutes if we are focused. If you are not focused, we have one announcement.8:22 PMI need to state for the record that for item 9. 1a in closed session. Relates to a potential litigation to be initiated by vta against brandon tires and kerry. 9. 1. Recess to closed session - ntial litigation to beinitiated by vta [government code section 54956. 9(d)(4)] number of potential cases: 1 - potential litigation to be initiated by vta [government code section 54956. 9(d)(4)] number of potential cases: 1 - anticipated litigation