Good evening, everyone. i'm going to ask the chambers to come to order.5:30 PMWe are excited to see so many of you here today.Don't make me start calling people's names out. I'm going to welcome verybody to our first regular meeting of our vta board of directors for 2020. I'm so excited to see so many familiar faces around the dais. The vice-chair will serve for the city group and o'neill as the alternate. We will begin with roll call.5:31 PM[roll call]> [roll call]Here.Thank you, elaine. let's all rise for the pledge of allegiance if you are able.America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.Thank you very mch. are there any changes from my colleagues for orders of day? Seeing none, May I have a motion to approve the orders of the day.We have a motion. larry was our second. All in favor say, 'aye'.5:32 PMAye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously. We are now moving to item 2. This is our awards and commendations. The biographies of our retirees for 2. 1 is read by our hr analyst.Thank you.Our first honoree this evening is recognize lok ki chan, graphic designer i, creative services unit; [ applause ] an administration award winner for the first quarter. He's been with vta for three years. Since 3 he joined, he has exceeded in any job assigned to him. He does whatever is necessary to complete his work.He's an excellent photographer. He's had his work recognized on a national level. Mr. Chan started a social media campaign called favored destinations which led to vta winning the grand award and competition. [ applause ]5:33 PMCongratulations. first quarter.Next honoree is steve yun, light rail operator, guadalupe operations; for the first quarter. This marks 12 years at vta. During his time, he has erved as a great roll model at vta. Anyone who has worked with him will tell you he is deserving of this honor.5:34 PMCongratulations. [ applause ]Our next honoree is juan delgadillo, transit mechanic, north yard maintenance; as employees of the first (1st) quarter of 2020; he is a go to person for the early morning pull out. If there is a problem. Mr. Dellgadillo takes pride in his work. Congratulations. Maintenance employee of the 1st quarter. [ applause ]although she is unable to attend this evening, resources analyst, retirement services unit, as supervisor of the first (1st) quarter of 2020. [ applause ]5:36 PMOkay, congratulations to our employees of the quarter and thank you for everything you do for our riders.Next on our agenda. Item 2. 2. Information item - recognize community partner 'mighty' mike mcgee, for his efforts for vta's artist of the month campaign. [ cheers and applause ]Please join us.Mike, the 2018-2019 santa clara county laureate and vta rider competed in the campaign. Hello, neighbor, acknowledge riders to get to their vta designations.5:37 PMWould you like to share with us your journey?[ indiscernible ]5:38 PM[ indiscernible ]Okay. thank you mighty mike. [ applause ]We are now moving onto agenda item resolution of appreciation for 2019 vta board chairperson teresa o'neill. . Receive remarks from teresa o'neill. [ applause ]So before we get too much further, May I have a motion and second to adopt this? I'm sure somebody n staff figured out who that was.Resolution by the board of directors of the santa clara valley transportation authority, relative to commending the honorable teresa o'neill. Whereas teresa o'neill is completing her term as 2019 chair of the board of directors and whereas teresa led the measure b capital programs and maintenance funds to the city, now now, therefore be it resolved that the vta board of directors extends their appreciation to teresa o'neill for chair of the board of directors for 2019 and further to give thanks to teresa o'neill from valley transportation authority. I will ask for the vote in just a second. Before we come up for the vote, we did a motion and second. I don't think we actually voted. All in favor say, 'aye'.5:42 PMAye.Any opposed? it passes unanimously. Now can you come up for a photo?Council member teresa o'neill: thank you very much for the resolution. It has been very challenging and I believe I have learned a great deal in a number of ways. I want to thank the manager ms. Fernandez and -- [inaudible] [inaudible][ indiscernible ]5:43 PM[ indiscernible ]5:44 PM[ applause ][inaudible] [inaudible]5:46 PM[ applause ]So, teresa, this is your life. [ laughter ]Teresa, thank you so much for your leadership and your work. One of the hall marks has been listening to the board and the staff. Thank you very much for your service as chair.5:47 PM[ applause ]One more big round of applause for teresa as she continues to serve as an alternate which is very kind ofWe are moving to item 3. this portion of the meeting is reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction. Speakers are limited to 2 minutes. The law doesnot permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under special circumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agen. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing. You can come up in any order your name is called. I'm going to call names.5:48 PM( calling names )And then I will call the next group. Welcome. Public speaker: thank you. Good evening. I want to talkabout the signage. I really like those new cars that have been displayed green or blue and what line it is.But the issue I have is that this is not to the inside of the car. Once i'm inside of the train, I have no idea what line i'm on. If that could be addressed that would be great. Now the parking lot right now is being used for the new -- with everything else. The surface is basically disintegrating and the people use this as sing vastly excessive speeds. I have nearly been hit twice in the last two weeks. We have multiple issues.When the five miles on the speed bumps need resurfacing. We need restriping. And last but not least, the next network, i'm deeply disappointed. Every single caltrain connection is broken. If a light rail arrives and the caltrain leaves on the 15 of the hour, how am I going to make my train. All of my trains have been increased by 10 minutes. I'm frustrated. First of all, I want someone fired. I have been putting up with this. I want you to look at google for the files.5:50 PMThank you, roland.Let me just finish.No, i'm going to have you finish. We have a lot of speakers card. Please come up as quickly as you can. We want to be sure we can listen to you and complete the business of our meeting. Welcome. Public speaker: welcome, everyone. I will do that by being short. I want to thank the mayor first of all for postponing along with this board our review and discussion on measure b. My thoughts on that are for the inancial personhere in the valley or 30 years. When something is 4-5 year's old and how many will we have in those areas. A way short fundamental from the plan and go beyond the plan to something more broad like my own area losing around 65. But we did get an adjustment to route 42. So I just want us to have aconsideration in these discussions over the next couple weeks so e look at it from all perspectives. I read through councilman's documents. I talked with one of my own councilman staff and their perspective and i'm just giving you mine. I look forward to more conversation between all of us and this interaction andcoming to a best solution because I think we can serve more than the 76% from measure b originally by looking at new information and all the things that we have changed before putting into place. Thank youfor your time. Public speaker: hi, i'm monica, I live in -- a lot has happened since the last board meeting and there is a little bit of confusion about the platform and the transit group. I want to clarify a few things.First of all the san jose city council members say they are # -- the roads in disrepair. We are concerned with the roads. Also measure b does not mean that any funds will be reallocated. It just means that it will be explored. Since we have been coming to these meetings and asking for them to be explored since April 2019, I think we should be able to have these discussions. Lso want to clarify that reallocating these funds they are specifically for bus operations since they are vulnerable and throughout the county. This is essentially the same and through most neighborhoods. In December it goes against the voters. We voted for this measure thinking that I would have more options and now I have less. When all voted for measure b or maybe some of you, we didn't just vote for the proposed allocations. We voted for the right of vta to be able to allocate funds. So I really want to encourage you all to be more open minds and the impact it's going to have on our lives. I know it's not easy but I want you to consider our views. A lot of us care aboutthis. Thank you. [ applause ] public speaker: daniel hunthunt also a san jose student. There has been a tremendous deal of lies making their ways through the airways and articles. They falsely claim this reallocation is illegal and would violate the measure b's conditions and while it does provide to fixingpotholes but also for improving safety at crossing and enhancing transit for seniors, low-income, disabled people. Now for people such as myself and low-income people and disabled mainly consist of these bus routes, light rails and public transportation in general, the vast majority of whom don't use the highways.This is so because since many of us don't have cars and aren't able to use the highways, less freeways.This plus the fact that the court has ruled that because of such reallocations, they fall short from what theytruly are. What better way to do so than to encourage people to take buses that can hold much more people and thus reduce the amount of cars on the roadways by creating new routes and stoart near their homes and including routines like these ones.5:57 PMThank you. [ applause ] public speaker: hello, my name is michael. I use transit from vta. We really need to transition away from car culture now more than we ever have and to start funding public transportation and in the subsidies for driving. Over the past 200 years or so, american cities have turned into car cities.Pretty much everything is made around cars. They do so at the ost of the environment, human life and unequality. We have to change that. Transportation is by far the leading cause of greenhouse gas emissions in california. We need to consider all environmental impacts in future decisions. Nor the to find climate change, we have to change. Cars are not only devastating to the environment but also to our communities.San jose has a vision zero goal, but to 2019 saw an all time high in pedestrian deaths and nearly all time high in raffic related deaths. This will only lead to more deaths. Access to transportation is the single most contributing factor for a person's ability to escape poverty. That service to keep poor people poor. Publictransportation is instrumentally important to a city's success. It has many environmental benefits and increases public safety and increases economic mobility. That is only a few examples of the importance oftransit. Please make t move toward the future that is made for the people.5:59 PMThank you.As our next speaker comes up, i'm going to invite up bilayer, james, linda, public speaker: my name isishmael. I want to thank the board for taking seriously the governance and rework and work that has been put in. In particular, I know that one of the reports mentioned the possibility of moving one of these and I would appreciate it would not move because as i'm trying to get back to mountain view that would be unpleasant. One other thing I wanted to mention is even beyond just, many of my coworkers when I talkwith the community, they say that public transit would work faster if they didn't have to take the bus. In many cases, they don't even realize what public transit options are available. For instance, I have within coworker that commutes through tracy. He thought it would take three hours to get to work in the north bay area, it turns out hat google maps had been misleading him because it did not understand the transferfrom the h trains to the h shuttles. And not same errors but people not thinking to look for the bus route.So, if the just beyond utting more money into running routes, if there are more thought and effort intomaking people ware of routes and timing routes so they can get down here, previously the old route basically in the light rail, now going off the schedules, I would have to wait ten minutes for a 15 minuteheadway train from the orange line to the green line which seems wrong. But thank you. [ applause ]6:01 PMJames?Public speaker: yes, I like the benches that you put in downtown. When are you going to start he project because I think you need to put benches all around. Also, I would like to see some changes to the newservice. Light rail should be every ten minutes, the orange line, the winchester and the blue line, I think that should be every ten minutes. I see people going on the light rail view with their pants down. You guys should have a sign out there that say the pants should not be down. We need to hire back our fare inspectors. This is not a good thing for people to go on the light rail with their pants a little bit down. That's wrong. If the fare inspector catches them, they should be thrown off the light rail. Also when does bart open up? I heard sometime in april. Also where when are you going to put up more fences so people cannot cross the tracks. Thank you. Bye. Public speaker: hello, board, good evening. I'm a candidate for council district 6. As our board member said, welcome to a new decades. This decade will see changes and they will be planned or unplanned. As you are all professionals, i'm sure that you can agree that with planning comes good things. Now my peers and I are telling you a good plan. It's not an option, not asuggestion. It's a very formal request for you to do the right thing to secure a livable future for my generation. And it starts with all of you deep understanding the climate emergency that we are in. It starts with you grasping to even understand the fear that I suffer from everyday looking at the news and knowing that this is only going to get worse and knowing that i'm going to have to sacrifice more of my life to be a leader that my community needs. I have taken a year off school. It starts with reallocating funding for measure b because the vta has the power to tackle the largest sector of emissions in san jose which istransportation. This is a 30 year tax which will end in 2047. You know how long that is for me? I will be 50 almost. What will my life look like then? The action you take today can't be unacted. And even in theweight of climate change even more so. Everyday that we don't take sufficient action it makes it one day harder for me when I get into office. Please hear our call and do the 3 right thing for my generation. Thank you so much.6:05 PMThank you.Welcome back,, sir.Public speaker: no matter how many roads you build, you cannot get rid of congestion. Over 20 years ago vta had computers. The computers are smart enough to allow traffic from the expressway traffic to not delay expressway traffic. Pretty smart thing. Why can't we do the same thing with light rail? I understand it May take some computer negotiating to cross an expressway running at capacity but it should be a no brainer to not hit a red light in a mobile home park. I have to wait in at least 1 of the drive ways. Also, if you speed light rail by 10%, it cuts your cost by 1%. It saves you money.6:06 PMWhatever happened to letting buses on el camino real. Are you working on it? Can you answer that question?6:07 PMWe can have a staff person respond to you directly.Thank you.Thank you, tom. brandy is going to talk to you back there. Thank you, tom.Public speaker: thank you, everyone. Scott largent. I'm a clean and sober father. Have been sober a little bit over four years and vta has been a lifesaver for me. It's now 523 but I do take the 23. I got more familiar with the transit system. When I was younger I swore that I would never get back on a bus but when the bank took the mercedes benz and my business went under, things changed pretty fast. Myappointments, court appointments, my psychologist, everything in general that I have to deal with, evenvisitation for my child is downtown. And everybody is pushing away to have housing near transit. When I walk out of the courthouse out there, I watch people smoke amphetamines, I smell it, I see poop, I see awar zone. I think you guys need to start putting in permanent sheriff's deputies at these parks and light rail stations. Maybe put the p. D. And vta there. Make it safe for people like me because I have to bedowntown, I love san jose and it's not safe down there. Saint james has changed a lot. There is only two restrooms in the park. I'm a homeless advocate and when you get outside of there, these are all people that need your help. It's horrible now. Thank you.6:11 PM[ indiscernible ]6:12 PMThey take 45 minutes. it's a bunch of people out there. I -- thank you for your time.Public speaker: good afternoon, mayor and staff. My name is cj walker. I'm a pastor at cathedral of faith. I would like to thank mayor liccardo for all that you have done. I'm here to address vta access. Vta access is an excellent program. It's probably one of the best home to out of home transportation probably maybe in the country, but the problem is it's not being ran properly. And because it's not being ran properly, it's causing riders like myself and even some of vta employees to ride vta access. And it's not getting us to -- they are picking us up late. They are not scheduling proper which a lot of times it causes a problem with dispatch. Dispatch is being disrespectful to us yelling at us and has cursed at us and I have been an advocate on behalf of my church members. Lot of them have stopped coming to church and stopped going to other places because of the problems with vta access. And it's been an enormous amount of problems and disrespect from the dispatchers. The scheduling has been off and wrong. It's an 3 excellent program, but this is 2020, everybody. San jose is beautiful. I have been here since 1987. I want to see it continue to flourish and everything that we offer here should be great. We are silicon valley, and it should be donebetter. We got to do things better, everybody. Vta access is awesome. Thank you.6:14 PMThank you, pastor.David, Mr. Hill? thank you.Pastor, Mr. Hill is going to meet you in the back room to discuss your concerns. Thank you. Blair, would you come forward. ( calling names )6:15 PMPublic speaker: hi, thank you. I hope 2020 can be a time in santa clara county to help bring out good ideals and sustainable practices and I hope it can set important standards in working an planning with san jose and santa clara county. Projects in 2020 we can contribute to. And housing or low-income andextremely low-income, and an eir report process about the high-speed rail to work with the future of fossil fuel and transportation and the dreaded question of eminent domain. Overall i'm trying to be a part of the process that is trying to offer positive stable hopeful ideas and guidelines that are possible at this time and deal with this use that can be frightening to all of us. These are ideas of peace and good democracy. I'm fearing the ideas of peace, love and peace for the world at this time. I feel at 2020 working with localideals with human rights and sustainable practices can address good flpractices that we May want to be a part of and the current state of the u. S. War. In my final 20 seconds I want to reminds yourselves of a fewitems. I hope you can consider a 90-120 review policy and civil rights and civil protections. Thank you.6:17 PMPublic speaker: I want to echo what tom had to say about pre-emption. It's a big miss issing ing element.One is the experience and the other is expectations. On the experience we think about the bus stop, thefirst exposure that a lot of potentials have. What is the condition of the bus stops. I use 7th street and santa clara bus stops. I have seen other bus stops with signs that say no smoking and other bus stopswhere there are no signs and plenty of smoking there. This is not a good first impression. On the expectation side, I happened to read the san jose climate report called smart san jose. One of the interesting things that it said was that we are expecting to see a higher utilization of but service on the next network as before. All the things I have read about next network and covered regions. I would like o see the board measuring goals and report back to the public how are we doing with the next network andis it attracting people and how can we meet those goals. Thank you very much.6:18 PMThank you.Welcome. public speaker: hello, i'm a conservation assistant for the sierra club chapter. We are living in a climate crisis, global temperatures are rising and extreme weather events are more frequent and more intense. I live in the unincorporated santa clara county area n the santa cruz mountains and I wonder sometimes when am I going to be next. What's going happen to my home, to my community, that's a part of who I am. I see elected officials from san jose and santa clara county who have already declared a climate emergency. So I see you understand this practice. We have less than a decade to change policy landscape. The future is at stake. Here transportation is the no. 1 source of emissions and cars are a culprit. There is no better time than to take action on this issue than now. Please, reallocate measure b funds from highway expansion to include transit operations and bus service. This is ssential for climate justice and social justice. Thank you. [ applause ] public speaker: hi, my name is neweri. Of course i'm here to ask you to vote yes and declare a climate emergency. I hope there is not one person in this 3 room that is going to urge you to make a decision otherwise. But we all also know that the time for declaration on paper is long over. I'm here to urge you to pair real decisions towards real improvements in our climatewith this declaration. I'm here to urge you to consider reallocation of measure b funds. The fact is that things haven't stayed the same since that measure passed. Everyone who voted for that measure expectedthat not just traffic, but overall experience of our transportation will improve with those fnds. Unfortunately it hasn't. It has become worse. There are bus lines that are being cut and unfortunately they are also concentrated in areas where people are most marginalized in every area of transit that are at leastavailable and our alternatives are unavailable. So accessible clean frequent free public transportation should be the goal of not just vta, but the city of san jose's climate smart and every decision we have made. We made this ommitment already. Each of you have made this commitment and to make thisenvironment safer for the young people of today and pair them with the supposed goals and claimed goals that each of these bodies have on their books. I drive my car because buses are not available to me at the times and time period that I need. I do take buses but I wish you could get me off the road. Please do that. Thank you. Public speaker: I take buses rarely but hen I go to san francisco and oakland I almostalways take bart. I think you probably know as well as I do that the options available matter a lot in terms of what people's behavior is. We have a lot of tough tasks here and we need to dream big in order to find our way together to a much stronger bicycle and transit and walking city. I don't think they are impledecisions. Also want to talk to you about the amount for transit. We need to fix the roads and potholes but also need to vastly improve transit service. I looked at the memo about this where he cites 3 the need to relieve congestion. Something I have learned as a bicycle advocate that is surprising that if you widenroads and ake roads better and more lanes available you increase the amount of congestion. People drive more. It's paradoxical. I need to find something good to bring to site for that. That's what happens if you make he roads better. We want to work to find the ways to move towards more bike share, more transit share and increasing the options available so people will want to do those things o they become the bestalternatives. I want to ride a bicycle in my 50s. Thank you. I appreciate your work on it and we are all in solidarity that we want to increase bike share and transit share. Thank yu.6:24 PM> good evening, board member with this brief climate emergency. Let's get that done and highway construction, not maintenance but construction going towards improving the bus service. Let's get that done. Thank you.Thank you. [ applause ]Judy, jonathan, you can com in any order. Welcome. Public speaker: good evening, thanks for the time allowing me to make public comment. I'm judy, an activist with silicon valley transit users. And I am transit dependent. My bicycle and the buses and the light rail, that's what I use to get going. Our organization is an all volunteer non-profit 501c3 and we try to get a pulse from our fellow transit users on what they need. So when we come here and talk, we are talking not just for ourselves, we are talking for other people that are, that we ride transit with that don't really ave the time or the means to come to meetingsor maybe make comments and such. We do think it's fortunate reallocate measure b and reducing potholes and bicycles and buses need the road to be in reasonable repair for that.6:25 PMOne of the things that I have heard that's not what the voters wanted, well, I have looked a lot back at the promotional materials and ballot statements for measure b. And they made great mention of transitimprovements and the dollars don't match the significance they placed on it. That's what most of us are looking for is just a reasonable reality that will help bring back some of the routes that went into theneighborhoods. These cuts over the past 20 years that there are many communities in our area that really don't have any transit service ithin a reasonable distance of where they live and where they need to go. So that would be helpful. I do like the 15 minutes on the arterial routes. Thank you so much.6:27 PMHi, as somebody who lives in the north of the system, it's frustrating to see the signs where the main bus where I come from, it still runs, every 30 minutes and when you get to the light rail, you can't connect tothe light rail and it's no longer direct and the transfer from mountain view to here is not direct because instead of getting off and catching a train there, the way you have the schedules arranged right now it's always three minutes. The quickest way is not to wait for the train on any of those lines but to go to the stop beyond which ever one I forget which one. You have to go to a stop further beyond and coming backto get here. That's the most efficient way. Why isn't the line at all iron sides, since the beginning of the lines, why doesn't it wait a few minutes to make the connection. It doesn't make sense. You need to look at your fare system. You need to reduce the daily pass to a double faire instead of a three day fare and the senior months pass is 30 one day and monthly passes. They rounded it down and it's 9. 3 day passes. Headult monthly pass is 12 day passes. It's a larger amount of the percentage of the month.6:29 PMThank you. I want to thank the speakers for speaking within their time. I want to point out to my colleagues, you will notice on the agenda that there are times and we'll be timing the public and we are going to be timing ourselves. We are going to there are no public hearings. I would like to invite up the(cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (schulter) good evening, chairperson chavez and vice-chair and ms. Fernandez and members of the board. Happy new year to all of you. Before I begin, I want to express our appreciation to outgoing chair o'neill for her service and dedication to the vta. At our December 11, 2019, meeting the cac recommended for your approval the cal trans sustainable communities planninggrant for the central bike way study which is consent agenda 6. 2 on your agenda tonight. The committee also conducted the chairperson election and i'm honored to serve as the chair once again for 2020. We willconduct our vice-chair election January 15th at 4:00 p. M. At the vta river oaks offices. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:31 PMBefore you leave, I want to remind folks that we still need some cac members. I want to ask staff to get the announcements out to all of you so we have a quorum.We do have the applications online.Excellent. thank you and congratulations.Thank you. nothing on (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (no report) chairpersons' report. (verbalreport) (no report) for the policy advisory board we have the meeting for the bart connector policy advisory board on December 18th and we received information on the project and project acquisition andutilities and community outreach. What we did that was most important is take a look at the community working groups. With that, 'm moving to 5. 5. 5. 5. Ad hoc board enhancement committee chairperson's report (verbal report) (mcalister) agend the board member December 20th. This was on the final governance assessment report. Due to the length, the committee devoted five hours to the assessment.Remember last time I made the announcement you chuckled at our five hour meeting. It actuallyhappened that long. We have two framework areas, examples of framework and structure andaccountability and also identified 26 recommendations. At our next meeting the bec will evaluate which recommendations, modifications or other changes to recommend to the board which was our stated charge. The workshop is scheduled for r sm to present itto the board. There was a necessity to make aradical change and then we had a grand jury report to improve the effectiveness of vta. Now recently we just had our rms study which will give us more information to improve our situation. I was reading one of our news update that states that vta is one of the worst transportation systems in the network. From ourlast meeting we said we were going to changing t grand jury report we have an opportunity and a path to improve ithin vta and looking forward to see great opportunity and great strides for improving our service.Thank you.6:34 PMI just wanted to add one point January 24, we are going to dedicate a new workshop and I will sit with Mr. Mcallister to review the agenda to have some outcomes from that meeting so that we can move on and dive in and get some work done.Do you have a card for consent? Do you want to come forward to speak on 5. 1. Was that my report.6:35 PMAybe something will pop into my head during the consent calendar. Someone somewhere said something about san jose. I hope san jose government to talk about the cac item. I hope san jose government, local media and all of us can learn important lessons and interpret good data and statistics for vision zero for everyday in the future. This is based upon environmental and community harmony and try to focus on miles of pedestrian and bike lanes and medians and large four day vendor farirs and block parties. I hope it can be a good reminder that also in this country, day-to-day civic government should always takeprecedence over law enforcement and technology and surveillance. I hope we are all learning how minimal use practices and accountable guidelines for surveillance technology have been built with ideas of peaceand local democracy and availability. As a eminder for all of us from santa clara county more has to be respected and observed.6:37 PMThank you.We are going to move on to our consent calendar items 6. 1 through 6. 4 and add our legislative program.So moved.We have a motion. we have a second. Mr. Mcallister.I would like to pull 6.3. then we'll get a motion for the rest items on the consent calendar and we'll move 6. 3.6:38 PMJust with regard to the portion on the lane to safety. I have been having some 3 conversations with somelegislators about whether or not there May not be an automated enforcement bill this year. There had been a couple years ago ago. If there is an automated speed pedestrian bill for pedestrian and bike safety, thatwe'll have sufficient basis for supporting that or will you need certain language to do that?Thank you. I would like the opportunity to review this and get back to you.Okay.I think it is certainly something to be handled but to make sure.Okay.All right. we have a motion and scond. Anymore discussion on the motion? All in favor say, 'aye'.6:39 PMAye.Any opposed? that passes unanimously.We are now moving to 7. Regular agenda board of directors silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) programupdate. One of the actions I took this and moved this earlier in the report. It comes at the end of the regular agenda if you pull things off consent. All right. Dennis.Good evening, thank you. tonight we are going to have an update on phase 1 and 2. With regard to phase 1, passenger service has been delayed until later this year. Bart and vta have developed the productcompletion plan. Completion plan included three groups of work leading to revenue service. Group one is project work. This includes known discrepancies identified through the bart phase testing and part of theresolve of the whole new service. Resolving before initiating would be the most efficient way to complete the project. Route 2 is initiating this and resolving any discrepancies that are identified at that time. This work is performed by the bart operating division to assure that the completed work is ready for service.This activity was previously suspended at 75% complete leaving 25% of those activities remaining to be performed. Group 3 of course is the prerevenue operations and getting them ready for service. At thispoint, all the project work is now complete to the extent that there are no known discrepancies and the discrepancies that need to be completed at this time. Today we have identified 1744 discrepancies involved with those needed before service begins. After this is resolved, bart will reinitiate the testing. How long this process will take is difficult to estimate at this time. Therefore a revised orecast for revenue service will not be available until after the remaining art testing that will progress sufficiently to estimate its conclusion and scheduling of new operations. We will be reviewing our work plan with fta on January 22nd. That will aid in aligning the work plan and details therein and progressing to group 2 activities, we should be able to forecast a date for revenue service. This is unlikely to be available for February update but by March wemaybe able to provide that information. At any rate, revenue for service will not be available until then.6:42 PMThanks, dennis. as was just mentioned the discrepancy is broken up and will affect the operations. We had approximately 757. We were approximately 35% of the way to closing those. We have good resources that have been mobilized since 25th of November when we took the decision to suspend bart operations.Approximately 27 individual strike teams or crews have been identified and daily operations of the project that we have dozens of crews working aggressively. We do expect the holiday season is passed us. We are going to pick up the pace a bit and our goal is to have those revenue required discrepancies closed out later this month. In addition to that, we are working with the other discrepancies that are post revenue that are considered punch list items but those are opportunistic and that work can happen after the operations.6:44 PMThis graphic merely depiction the work described. Roup one involves resolving the 1747 discrepancies. We planned to have all of these discrepancies resolved before January 31st and however some associated with the track and power system May extend beyond January 31st. This is true and we do not have a completion schedule for these discrepancies and this involves making contractual arrangements. As you can see group two activities to the remaining is the applicant for the discrepancies in phase one. Vta and bart are evaluating whether or not the two group activities will be reinitiated before all the traffic power modifications are completed. This evaluation is not yet complete or sufficiently complete to conclude that at this time. Lastly, after bart hase 3 acceptance testing of group 2 activities is complete, bart May restart its prerevenue service. This is very unlikely that this part of the 3 phases will have 3 many surprises although it is always a potential. We are not able to forecast a reliable service date. After bart progresses ith phase 3 testing activities in group 2, we should be in a position to give a forecast. Phase 1 and 2 very quickly. We have received the 10% design submittal and we are comparing the work product to be includedinto the application for federal futuring from fta. We have an outreach forum to attract potential bidders scheduled for February 11th at the double tree hotel in san jose. Additional information is available on thewebsite. In the meantime we are hoping to submit our budget request with a goal of sending a full funding grant agreement and when that was received that will enable to continue with the work.6:47 PMWe have three speakers on this item. Roland lebron, james white man and jason.What you are looking at is systemic failure. This is stupid. By the way, that's spanish engineer who designed the stations will have passed away one year on March 30th. At that point I will be disclosing this and when he told me in no uncertain terms what he thought of the vta design. But let me just wrap up since I have two minutes. You probably know supervisor peskin in san francisco. Supervisor peskin'sfavorite phase is having the same people doing the same thing and expecting different results is insanity.I'm going to ask for two resignations effective immediately. Public speaker: h, members of the board. I want to hank chairperson o'neill for her service and congratulating ms. Chavez. I want to go back to theDecember 2019 meeting which I believe jorge and 40 of the discrepancies that bart had identified were actually serious and that most likely they would be resolved by the end of that year and obviously that didn't happen and on the last charter I saw anywhere between 400 and 500 and for testing for prerevenueservice, based on the previous on bart testing is 180 days. My advice would be based on past experiences here on our sixth deadline that any forecast that maybe taken in March will be taken with a grain of salt.Thank you.6:49 PMJames will be our last speak are on this item. Public speaker: yeah, I had some things about violence atbart stations. Well I saw it on one of our vta buses there was violence. Two people almost got into a fight.If we are going to bring the violence down here, if bart brings that violence down here, we need to get more cctv's at the ight-rail station and vta park & ride lots at the transit center to stop these people from fighting at the transit center. I go to lockheed martin one and there is none there. So when the bart coming down here? At the bart rail stations, when the 49ers are coming, we need to have extra trains on that line. I think we also need when bart comes down here more security officers on our light rail, on our buses. We need to get cctv's on the buses. We need to get video things for when people o wrong when bart comes down here. We need to get more money when they come to the stations and our transit centers.6:51 PMThank you.Any comments from the board?Thank you very much. thank you for the report. A couple questions. First off, does vta have a deadline for us to resubmit to them the new revenue service date? I know you said they are going to be meeting with us, but is there a deadline?There is not currently a deadline as indicated before vta maintains a very close working relationship with fta. We certainly notified fta with where we are and will be working with the staff work plan this month, and they have indicated the same thing that we reported here tonight which is that once we progress through the remaining bart face 3 acceptance testing will be in a better forecast and this is what they will be helping us with the work plan in january. As it stands, they are working with us and they will review our work plan and will monitor our work plan and assist us in developing the forecast for revenue service once we progress through this too.6:52 PMWhich you stated you expect to have better information by march, not our February meeting?That's right. the objective here is to reinitiate the two group activities so final bart phase connectivity can begin and that will give us an indication of how smoothly that will go and at that point that should be able to forecast a revenue service date.6:53 PMOkay, if we can go to slide 3 for the discrepancies. So, you mentioned a number of discrepancies the last time. Can you denote how many new discrepancies since you reported last month?Actually, 0. we suspended bart phase 3 testing November 25th in order to give us a chance to get outthere in the corridor to address this ever growing list so it is frozen. We have identified a few issues on the side, but that is frozen in time.It is frozen because bart is not out there looking for discrepancy?That's correct.It could increase.Yes, there is a possibility that they could find additional ones.6:54 PMOkay, and I also recall in prior reports, was indicated by our speaker, a different sort of breakdown where there were serious discrepancies. I'm not asking for anymore details today, but what I would like to see is sort of the same format and what we have seen is a different number of enforcement in reporting the discrepancies make it very hard to kind of follow what's happening, what's changing. So I would like to seea similar format that gives us the details to compare from the last prior months especially since we May have still a number of months ahead of us and these discrepancies are going to be what is limiting us on the next slide which you can go to the next slide on this tbd in order for revenue service date and more importantly when we are getting to the bart operations phase 3 testing again. You mentioned there areconversations on once again combining. I wanted to see maybe yourself, jorge and dennis in regards to the benefit that we had out of the combination of having bart and our staff, our contract staff on site doing thecombo of work. How much time do we think we May have saved in that regard and it sounded like there was a lot of troubles with that and that's why we have stopped that at the moment but we May have had to go back to speed things up. It sounds like the same story. I'm curious, was that beneficial and is there abenefit to do that again rather than pausing and completing our side of the work.6:55 PMLet me clarify a couple things. Bart staff is out with us on the field constantly. What happens is what made it difficult to conclude the work is primarily the revenue operations. That, we are not planning to overlap with the testing and resolution. With regard to the work in the light blue in group one is a very large number of items that the team was struggling to coordinate around for the revenue presence and with thesame of simplicity, we baseline that phase and suspended it to organize around addressing the number of discrepancies that have been identified and considering hether or not to delay the testing for that period.It's not unheard of, phase 3 testing ordinarily go together and we have to get some history behind us on the known phase 3 testing discrepancies before we initiate. It's not incompatible. What's really problematic is the prerevenue operations which consist of mostly track time.6:57 PMThat is helpful. this 25% remaining is what we are talking about under this no. 2 activity and that is notextraordinary to do that work. We have temporarily aways -- paused that. I do see that level of work and if that's not going to be fixing the discrepancies, I will be supportive of that because we maybe out there addressing a discrepancy where we maybe as in the past addressing other discrepancies that maybe saving some time. If we are not going to conclude that 25% of work, we May not know what else is on thelist. We hope we can get to that.6:58 PMAny other questions? Mr. Mcallister and Mr. Diep.When I saw this 10% design that there was a $600 million gap and that you were going o use prior pp 3's to meet that gap, has that hanged and you said something about percentage and levels.Thank you. none of that has changed since our last presentation. What we are doing now is assessing the work product including the cost estimate and confirming it with assumptions. The challenge that we have in this program is under the expedited project delivery pilot program and essentially trying to make a funding application at a 10% design level which rdinarily has a large variability in the cost of estimating.The other aspect is fta ordinarily exercises a great deal of scrutiny over the applicants information becausethey usually have a very large stake in the program. In this case they have limited their involvement to 25% and shifted that to vta. This period in phase 2 is where vta is conducting its own diligence in the information we are preparing and they are working directly with fta and they are looking for us to guide them on the program and the issues you raise are most concerning that you need to have the cost in funding and schedule and balance with your scope. This is the process we are going through right now.7:00 PMOkay, thank you.Last time you were explaining how there were a number of discrepancies and some were truediscrepancies and some that they were pointing out that weren't really discrepancies. How many of them were actually resolved and how many did they agree that a non-flushing toilet should not be required to flush.Roughly the 757 discrepancies that were deemed to be required for revenue operations we currently have over 100 that we are discussing and debating, various components of it. It May very well be legitimate work but for hose that require revenue operations May be a punch list kind of status. Today we are half way through that list from moving them out of the required category. We are making some progress but the ability to get through with bart to get this resolved.7:01 PMThank you.This is really a good segue. a good half of the two questions I wanted to ask. He other question is that discrepancy list which sounds an awful lot like a bunch list. As I read the report you were indicating youexpect to be complete with it by early february. That is 2-3 weeks away. Do you have some kind of a schedule that has 50 or 100 or whatever the number is of items with at least an aspirational date?7:02 PMYes. I have a copy with us but we don't have anything we can project. What we did in November to have to take a step back to meet these discrepancies we have developed a crew base schedule. Each discrepancy is identified to a specific generic discipline and those disciplines are being scheduled out. Those are being executed and we are looking at a schedule.I thought you said you had 100 left and now back to 747. I'm getting mixed up in terms of response.In November 25th, we had 757 that were reported for operations. The official count as of Friday of last week which is the report out was 484. Of those, some were in dispute, some have been resolved, but weare not declaring victory until we have a document that says it's closed.7:03 PMWhat i'm asking you is do you have something that you can distribute to us later on off agenda that shows the 484 from Friday with a three week schedule that shows how you are going to close those out. Iapologize, three weeks is -- you said february. But essentially a month schedule that says this is the commitment everybody has made to get these things closed out. That's really my question 3 and if you do, have a work plan like that, how confident are you that it can be achieved. How much is aspirational and how much is it that we can knock these out. These are relatively black and white issues. We either fix the item or the other side is going to agree hat we don't have to fix it.7:04 PMWe can provide you with a working plan and also make an assessment of what our confidence level of the crews to get that work done.I think that is helpful. i'm not trying to pin you down. I know there is concerns about over promising and inadvertently probably, but honestly when we are too generic about this, at this level here, I know you arenot, I know you are very specific from the work and too generic about it here, I think for the public and some of us have done a lot of punch list items and building things when I was in that business, it soundsthat perhaps more than a mess than it is. It sounds like big mess. Because I do believe there is a high level of professionalism here. I'm suggesting it's probably ot such a mess and you have a regiment schedule and plans for get thanksgiving wrapped up. I would appreciate if you get 3 inasmuch as detail.Not every detail for how much everything works, but an item -- per item.7:05 PMIt's a matter of opening the can to see what's inside. We might be able to resolve the discrepancy in an hour or might take two shifts. We will look for a level of confidence and going forward.7:06 PMIt still feels like less of a mess than us not being certain here as we sit here today. As I sit here today out of 484 what your confidence level is on anything. I believe you guys have an idea of what you can wrap up and what can be lingering, but I think that ought to be shared with us.Gentlemen, do you understand what is being requested of you?Yes.Any other questions? seeing none, we'll move to the next item of the report. We are moving to item 7. 3.Action item - approve appointments to board standing committees, joint powers boards, policy advisoryboards, and ad hoc committees for 2020. The first thing I want to say, for everyone that gave me yourwish list, you got it. He rest, bad, bad, bad. [ laughter ] i'm kidding. Everybody who called me at the last minute, I have totally done that to someone so don't feel bad about it, ut it excited me that you were taking your assignment so seriously that you were doing it. Thank you for that. I want to make one comment. As part of the recommendations, I am putting forward, mself, deb and jeannie to be on thecaltrain board. As part of the caltrain board, I will be representing vta as part of a governance subcommittee or ad hoc committee at caltrain to take a look at governance as issues raised by me and other members here so I will be representing you on that. The second is that we have requested from staff that each county that's participating each property contribute 1/3 to independent council to March usthrough this governance discussion and the reason for that is the only council available to us is the councilto both caltrain and cal trans. In order to not look at any conflict, we are looking at over $80,000 not to exceed -- 'm ready for a motion for the committee assignments.7:08 PMI move motion to extend the committees --7:09 PMAll in favor say, 'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? great.Next item. a presentation on vta's sustainability program and climate initiatives. (verbal report) this is a none action item but the staff will be speaking about the climate emergency resolution and the other is we have a lot of speakers on this item. The way i'm going to do this is i'm going to ask the presenter to beclear and brief, and we are going to then move to the speakers and then we'll go to board discussion and action.Supervisor cortese, did you want to make any comments. Would you look to do that after or before nuria?7:10 PMMaybe before she speaks. I have got a shorthand briefing as to why we don't have a resolution. What I literally did was took a county resolution acknowledge we don't have oh to do exact the county did becausethis is a starting point to kick around on the resolution side notwithstanding the sustainability program anddetailed for specific climate initiatives. I'm not so sure how we got where we are and if there was an action resolution before us. My only problem is and i'm not trying to be a stickler or heavy handed at all, but it just strikes me when somebody asserts that we have an emergency and I don't think I was the only one. I heard several comments here, it seems odd to defer action on the emergency. It's ethan emergency and we move on it. If it's not an emergency, you know and e study it. So my purpose is whatever the explanation is, I want to have folks speak on this.7:11 PMThank you, madam chair for the opportunity for this. You are going to hear from our environmental management program and christina, who heads up all of our sustainability and energy programs. Yes, we heard you loud and clear annie wanted to assure the board and the public that public transportation is in fact at the forefront of this climate emergency and crisis by the programs and the investment that has been made to get more people out of cars and using public transit. So it's not as that we needed a climate emergency to do what we do. E have been doing this all along. We think that we certainly we'll be bringing a esolution because this board has not adopted a resolution and it's more than just doing it in solidarity as a resolution because we stand behind the work, the investment that we have made and the support that you have given us through the programs in our sustainability group over the years. The reason that we did not bring a resolution to you today but we intend to bring one at the February board meeting is I wanted to give the entire board the opportunity to hear from staff on the work that we've been doing throughout the years. As you May recall we have been giving awards and ecognitions by our peers in the city and cities and others. With that as a backdrop, i'm going to ask anne to do a very quick summary on what we are doing and what e intend on doing, and yes, there will be a resolution and adoption and of such resolutionby this board. Thank you.7:14 PMIn this stage I will introduce the program and action that vta does and will do to address missions and we are looking into this as valley transportation authority an agency. Vta was established by the board of directors since 2008. Since then we have implemented policies, programs and projects to address ourenergy use, water use, waste generation and greenhouse gas emissions. Due to 2016, vta achieved gold level recollecgnition for goals and as a result is presenting the core values for the way we do business. The two primary sources have our greenhouse gas emissions are our fleet nd facility energy. The use of fossil fuels and non-revenue fleet makes up 79% of our total emissions. Facility is primarily use of electricity and makes up 13% f our total emissions. The majority of our electrical uses is the power to the light railsystem. The facilities energy make-up 92% of the greenhouse gas emissions. The spike is due to coming online. What are some of the actions vta can do for a business? Green energy is probably the best way to address our electrical usage. So 2019, many of our utility accounts were automatically enrolled in the green star program and a sizable ortion of our electricity -- in the future vta should switch all accounts to the total energy green programs. The solar power. We have installed everal solar panels to our facilities.With batteries stores and other technologies we can expand the usefulness of the systems. Led retrofit because of the turn around in investment we started led projects but we have more to go at some of our facilities. We have a building automation system that controls our hvac and that reduces our usage.Transportation internally, the gas related to our fleet, buses, are by far the greatest services of emissions.California has mandated targets to the state to get the state's transit fleet to zero emissions by that timeframe. Our non-revenue is made up of service trucks, passenger vehicles and vans and we will continue to purchase electric vehicles as we replace these older ones. The construction, we do obviously have a lot ofconstruction projects. We do which generate greenhouse gas emissions short-term, we are getting to require the use of tier 4 equipment which is cleaner engines on construction equipment. Transit orienteddevelopment, vta is not a land use agency and control where development happens and to implement dod to reduce ridership on our system. Measure billio provides funding and vta bart and silicon valley and will generate span on the systems and focus on projects that produce context to transit and employment areas. The transit operations, the next network is here. Everyone is transitioning to the new service to reduce ridership and will address the first and last mile connection. People do and will be able to drive cars.For the various programs including highways, the majority of the program are not capacity increasing. Most of the projects if not all nclude a requirement to address complete street elements. Most include operational improvements such as interchange modifications along with traffic signal modifications. For these projects that do add capacity such a some highway segments that will add expresslanes tocongestion it can be invested in transit or other transportation modes. All of these multimodal projects plan to increase ridership and reduce congestion and also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Finally going back to the proposed adoption of declaring a climate emergency, we recommend setting targets to directefforts to reduce emissions. Our recommendation is to be be 50% below baseline year by 2025 and 70% below baseline by 2040. Our baseline year is 2009, the year we started collecting data. As a point of reference. In 2019, we are about 30-35 below the baseline. To achieve the greenhouse gas emissions theacts we are working on an action plan that we will wring to the board at a later date. In conclusion, there is a set of actions and some more significant than others and more with the intent to reduce thesegreenhouse gas emissions and reducing the targets.7:21 PMI wanted to say the reason we went through this whole presentation is to show you that we are now with the climate emergency resolution that we are going to bring to you for adoption will capitalizing not only a statement but we'll have goals established in that action plan. And metrics.7:22 PMThank you.For our speakers, i'm going to call you up in groups of 10. Please introduce yourselves when you come forward. I'm going to invite you up in the order that I got their card. ( calling names )Welcome.Public speaker: good to see you again. I'm glad I got called up because I have another board meeting. On this one, I want to say that on climate emergency, I rail want to support that and I hope we can get this declaration completed before us at this next board meeting so we can see how this is going to state vta'scommitment to improve transportation within the county. I hope we can retain service in the areas with noother transit options in those areas. I would like to see us reevaluating that option with the next standards that will take effect in July of this coming year. Also develop a plan to rebuild the entire bus network with zero emissions vehicles with all the diesel that we have. Increasing the fleet to 750 where we are only in the 400s right now and 80 idle buses to improve these areas. So we can get this all approved and support our next five years since this measure b with the measure b. Thank you for your time. Public speaker: I want to acknowledge our solidarity of people concerned about climate change. I'm sure that i'm speaking among friends. I want to urge the board to declare a climate change that declare vta's commitment to improve transportation options in santa clara county. I urge the board to adjust transit service guidelines to retain service in areas with no other transit options. I urge the board to reevaluate highway projects based on the new ceqa s. B. 743 standards which take effect July 1st. 2020. I to the best of your knowledge -- urge the board to develop a plan to increase the fleet to 750 buses as approved by the voters within the next five years. Thank you so much for your time.7:25 PMThank you. public speaker: i'm daniel. As I stated before that we must state of emergency this plan. If we can only see the poisonous gas we are putting in our atmosphere and this board must take a stand to vta's commitment to showing commitment to this county as a global leader and we must retain services with noother areas of transportation options. We must develop a plan for a zero emissions for a whole bus network and to increase the fleet to 750 buses as approved by voters for the next five years. Most of all we must obey the new law f the land for reevaluating highway projects and separate from the climateemergency reallocating measure b funds from this law. Now the nay sayers and the penny pitchers, the scrooges argue that such ambitious visions that even are preserving the routes that are impossible. To them would like to end on a note of rfq whose campaigns stop here as to why this board should ignore them. Some men see things as they are and ask why. I dream of things that never were and asked whynot. My question to everyone for these goals will be why not. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, 'm judyyoung. I would like to urge the board to declare a climate emergency. And glad people are getting out of their cars to end this transportation. And ending twith the buses with zero emissions and approving ourtransit bus services. What I learned a long time ago a imple way of putting it to get people out of their cars and into public transportation is et people where they want to go, when they want to get there. Time is usually for a lot of us the big issue with taking public transportation. From my experience, when I travel downtown, I can easily take light rail because for me to drive and park versus taking light rail takes roughly the same amount of time. Taking buses throughout san jose is a different story. Sometimes thereare places where it can take me 30 minutes to drive, it an take me two hours to take a bus. That's a much harder choice. So I don't take buses nearly as often as I take light rail. That's why I would like ameasurement to be included in this plan that talks about getting people where they want to get to when they need to get there. So time is a very important factor for getting people out of their cars and into public transportation. Thank you.7:29 PMMy name is katherine hedges. i'm glad that you are I hope that you will reevaluate the standards that will take effect July 1st this year and develop a plan for the bus network for zero emissions that will include 750 buses for the next five years. -- i'm lucky that I live in downtown near a focused complex. There are so many people that ive in transit deserts and it was bad enough before the next network and now one of my friends is getting a second car because neither he nor her husband can get to their employees at opposite ends of san jose --7:31 PMHank you.As judy comes forward, i'm going ask people to lineup again. ( calling names ) public speaker: thank you for the opportunity to speak, judy an activist on silicon valley transit users. I see more and more efficient transit as moving forward on climate initiative. One of the bus drivers told me how excited he is about thetesting that is going on with the electric buses. He obviously can't wait to take the next step in climate responsibility and neither can i. Thank you so much.7:32 PMWe want to urge to you step up and do a lot more. We urge you to declare a climate emergency and immediately take action to address that emergency. Increase the size of the bus fleet. And allocatemeasure b funds. For our children and grandchildren, the climate crisis is a true life or death emergency.Please do the right thing. Thank you.7:33 PMHi. I attend the local high school. We need to stop depending on cars for transportation, improve busservice and plans to rebuild the entire bus network with zero emissions vehicles. Now over a time eriod of 20 years. This is urgent. Public speaker: hi, everyone. I'm 14 years old and here to talk about climate change. What people don't realize is how much this scares me and how nothing is happening to prevent it.I have dreams I want to accomplish. Children and grandchildren and live life without this constant worry.Every day we waste because of this climate emergency. One generation will pay the price. Climate hange will be the thing that will become a reality unless we do something about it. Thank you. Public speaker: good evening, my name is macy and i'm 14 years old. I dream of grassy hills and blue skies. I remember feeling so lucky to have been born into a place like this. But growing older, I started to realize the world I was dreaming of might be just that and a dream that might sit in our imagination. Last year when I was in eighth grade I went to a school here in san jose. We were miles and miles away from wildfires. The changein air quality might compare to other parts of california had a drastic impact on our lives. Students were required to stay inside of our buildings at all times and school even closed for a long period. As today's ssues of climate change further materializes, we need to declare this a climate emergency. Thank you.7:37 PM> when we look outside the sky is still blue, but as buses stroll down the street, carbon monoxide is in the atmosphere. We know that climate change is causing dramatic changes in our environment. Icebergs aremelting rapidly and now destroying houses as well as other countries. In the past two years, california hasexperienced numerous disastrous wildfires. All of these catastrophes are happening every year. Climate change is affecting everywhere around the world. The year after, california was the wettest it has ever been. This extreme weather fluctuation is because of climate change. You have the ability to prevent it from becoming worse. We have to take action now. Thank yu.7:38 PM> hello. I would like to urge the board to do three things. The first highway projects with the new standards that will take effect July 1st. The second is to look into prioritizing at intersections, prioritizinglight rail to reduce stoppage time because when the light rail comes and that means they take longer. At least one in israel has been redesigned intersections with light rails and other transit things with buses as they go much faster and so faster transit means more ridership. I would also like vta to look into installing bike racks at all the transit stations. If i'm a person where my house is ten minutes from a light-railstation, it's faster for me to bike there. But I might not need my bike at my destination. It doesn't make sense to bring it to my destination and lug it all the way back and more convenient to park it at the light-rail station. I would like to ask you to put in bike racks at all light rail stations. It's quick and cheap and effective. Thank you. Public speaker: hi, why are we acting that it's not a big deal that this climate change is affecting millions of areas. Why are we acting that the climate change is not the root cause of all of these issues. I had the experience that taught me that most people aware of this climate change, they don't try hard to take action. A friend was confused to how to take a bus to her house and another friend asked to help her and she explained it was inconvenient to have to wait ten minutes for it to come. This is why she asks to be icked up in a car evidence. Even though she knew reenhouse gas emissions were harmful to the environment. I have heard many similar thoughts from many peers which tells me already the earth has ncreased by 1 degree celsius. They ignore climate change because it's inconvenient for them to take action. I don't bike to school everyday because I enjoy waking up earlier. If people were moreserious of this situation, they wouldn't mind this inconveniences. We are telling the city that we need to act now because things are already bad enough. We are encouraging people to care more because climate change is real and a big deal. Public speaker: hi, i'm kerry. We need to increase biking and walking. If you declare an effective climate emergency, students and adults alike will be more inclined to help take action to achieve this goal. I would like to you make combatting climate change a priority. If I had to gess, Iwould speculate that most of you are here because you want to help people. I want to help people to. The problem is I don't know if i'm going to have a chance. A couple months ago my friend asking me why i'm worried about climate change and even sacrificing my education for this change. I replied with this. I do it so I have more time to spend with the people that I love. I want to have kids when I grow up. I want to sitdown next to them and tell them the story of how we beat climate change. I want to laugh with them and hear about their lives and ask how was school everyday in the afternoon when they come home. I want to live the life of a wife, of a mother, of a grandmother. I'm representing my friend justous of college whowants to have kids but is afraid of bringing a child into a world where we are facing such an urgent crisis, where kids are having to take the lead to face this emergency. I'm here representing youth around theworld who want to have a future because we need a future to be the future. Thank you.7:43 PMAs tom comes forward, i'm going to ask and I apologize if I mispronounce any names. Boobe; monica, james, scott, mary, betsy, robin and nakit access.7:44 PMMy name is tom, this is my 70th winter. Question, how do you do a highway project or a road project that solves congestion but does not add capacity? Can anybody answer that one? It sounds like 1984doublespeak. We know what the solution is. The report that we heard talked all around the elephant in theroom. The elephant in the room is the 500,000 cars on 101 and 280 and 17 and 680 and 87 and 85 and probably forgetting some. That's what we've got to solve. It's not updating led lights. It's the biggy. What we need more than anything else is decision makers with a backbone. A lot of people aren't going like it when it becomes harder to drive. I don't like it but it's the right thing to do. You've got to guide thiscommunity to a fruitful future for all the kids that were here and hoping to have kids and grand kids f their own. Thank you.7:46 PMGood evening, my name is boobe and i'm 14 years old. The devastating and recurring wildfires happening right here in the very state that you and I reside in. These fires burning in california are a constantreminder hat our changing climates and powerful events that are changing lives for the worse. All it takes is one tiny spark to burn down an entire city, an entire community. For example, the kincaid fire in sonoma county, located only two hours north of here has burned over 76,000 acres of land and area twice the size of san francisco. I can only imagine how many people lost their homes, their savings, their entire city and most importantly, the lives of loved ones. As the fire engulfed their surroundings, I can only assume two main questions floating through people's mind were will I be alive tomorrow or will I be able to fight these flames or will the fire steal the lives of our children right in front of our eyes. To ignore this link between this one little flame and the global issue of climate change is what puts the lives of millions at risk. Very soon, you and i, all of us living right here could be the victims of the next unbripredictable fires. If we work together and use this opportunity we can prevent a catastrophe like this from happening in the future. Thisis why I feel so strongly about climate change and why I urge all of you to vote yes to declare a climate emergency. Thank you.7:48 PMThat any declaration for anything purely on the buses and buildings that the vta operates to get where thomas said where there are things like switching electric buses and maybe on its own merits and cost of running them but if it becomes an issue of allocating resources towards that per say running diesel before, I don't know which one makes more sense from reducing emissions. It seems like it would be good to have the target of reducing emissions as a county as a whole rather than focusing purely on the things that vta operates. The other thing that I wanted to note that was brought up in the presentation is I believe thatanne made a comment about the congestion affecting multiple modes of transportation especially if you are willing to do things such as create bus lanes and congestion doesn't have to affect buses. It doesn't really affect bikes and doesn't really affect caltrain and because of poor single engine emissions. There isoptions if we take them. Thank you.7:50 PMThank you. welcome. public speaker: my name is -- i'm a climate activist with mothers out front and climate youth action. There is a 30 year out, the ferocious wildfires and the drought conditions, so what is our future look like here in california. Let's look at hotter countries. Australia is currently fighting 130 firesstill raging out of control. According to research by uc berkeley in india, extreme financial stress and on going drought due to climate change May have contributed to 60,000 farm workers. Here farmers arebeing driven out of the central valley due to drought. What about when birds die from the heat and start falling into our streets. We are losing our po pollinators pollinators. We are reverse our crisis by reducing carbon in the sky. Only by stopping the carbo carbo carbo carbon pouring to it. You can reduce traffic cheaper and faster than we can expend highways and bart. You have a chance to make a huge debit inreducing carbon emissions. Declare a climate emergency. What will you do to step up your game. [ applause ]7:52 PMMy name is monica. I want to thank the staff for the update and everything you have done so far and to Mr. Cortese for the climate emergency referral. You need to think about the role that this takes. I want you to add a couple things. The fisrst is to adjust this and to consider this for all light buses and rail and this is low and something that would help to address that and the highway projects based on new sb 47standards that will take effect July 2020 and lastly develop a plan to rebuild the entire bus network with zero emissions and vehicles and increase the fleet 3 with 750 buses within the next five years. We really need to go in a much more sustainable direction for transportation in this county and think about ways that one funding mechanism as a measure b allocation. To really think about this. Just one of the only places for the majority of people. We are the future7:54 PMGood evening, my name is betsy.I am an incoming measure, speaking for myself tonight. The previous speakers have spoken very well and the need for this climate emergency. I fall back on vta when things are too wet or too far for mypreference for riding. I might be the only person in my office who rides the buses with any regulatregularity and that is because they take a long time. I can get to the five miles to my office on a bicycle under half an hour. On buses, that same five miles takes me close to an hour. And the people who are driving are not going to get out of their cars when it takes twice so long when it takes transferring between buses that take longer or t doesn't come anywhere close to either end of their trip. So, transportation is anne enormous proposition to greenhouse gasses. We are not going to solve that problem without fixing the public transportation so that it is faster and more reliable and goes later.7:56 PMThank you.As our next speaker comes up, i'm going to call names one last time. Robin nikita, scott, nick, marshall and blair. Welcome. Public speaker: hi, my name is mary williams, a resident of san jose district 1 for 30 years, part of the orchard city and a member of the climate reality leadership core trained by al gore to communicate the scientific facts of global warming nd climate change and to adjust the solution andaddress tim p the impact on this crisis. We need to make every effort to implement the solutions that we already have available to us. One way mentioned earlier is to develop a plan to develop a bus network with zero emissions vehicles. I'm glad to see that has already begun. I'm also asking you to vote in favor of this and or residents that don't have an option and to encourage people to come out of thi their cars. Iencourage improvements in this area as well. Thank you.7:59 PMPublic speaker: scott mace. Is I grew up in sunnyvale. Raised a child in the east bay. Back in 2017, think looked at mush measure b and they did an analysis that found that increasing bus operations would mile per week day more than - 600,000 miles and conversely enhancing express ways would add more than 6,000 vehicles per mile per week day. I think those analysis are still valuable. I would also like to caution ward about thinking that innovation will replace traditional buses. I have been a technology journalist my whole life. I have studied technology etensively. At a previous meeting I shared with staff I noticed that they were increasing congestion in cities nd we don't know the science yet. We don't use this emergency to the favor of unproven experimental changes. Public speaker: hi, i'm robin. I agree with the previousspeaker. I think in this day it's important to make a distinction between vta transit operator and the presentation focused on sustaining efforts on that and vta as a regional decision making body where wecome together to discuss regional transportation policy. I think most of the speakers have addressed that context. I think those things can be true that vta is an award-winning sustainable transit operator and we as a region fail to meet our climate goals because transit is a very small part of our climate greenhouse gas emissions. I think it's really important to keep those separate. One is fairly easy as a business issueand one is a very political issue. For me, the purpose of the climate declaration is for us to really come together, the different cities and the county that are representing our region and to say, yes, we will makethe climate change and dealing with climate change a priority in how we do transportation policy. Thank you. Fi public speaker: good evening, I ride the light rail everyday to work. I don't think I need to say something that has already been said. We now saw 14 and 15 year-olds that have come to talk about this and the sacrifice they are taking to put into their commutes. That is so incredible. I think it's really the responsibility of an organization like the vta to make that choice as easy as possible. It's not a highschoolers responsibility to go out to hange climate change. It's your responsibility and your organization to support that as much as you can. I also wanted to just say that complete streets and bike ped facilities as far climate change and providing safe access to transit. In my position with walk san jose I have heard toomany times of people who have close calls getting to light rail stations and those killed between transit stations and stops. So s so safe access is important.8:03 PMHi. thank you. I want to thank you for your work on this issue. It's been my feeling that vta is locked into a ough policy situation for about ten years now. This is really a chance to break out of that, and it's exciting and hopeful. I think everyone in this room during our public discussions over the past few years has easily mentioned to ourselves that it would just be nice that we can oncentrate on good public transit and those sort of issues and how that can grow. We are continually locked in by federal agencies, by state agencies.Currently the current president interim has created small emissions standards to lower the standards and that california in a bind and it's very interesting work. Once again, I think the work of david cortese and the ta staff who they have seen there is a chance that they can also work a green new deal here with vta and hat we can do that together at this time is very hopeful. I'm hopeful for what you can do and to once again remind the public transit ideas that's kind of a foundation for all of us and we have created good lives and good practices for ourselves from learning from public transit governance. So I hope in the future when we talk about the green new deal we are bringing our public transit ideas to this process can be used a lot and can be important to us. Thank you.8:05 PM> thank you very much. I want to thank ll the speakers. Especially the youngster that were very talented nd very engaging. I would like to see if there are any comments or questions from the board. I'm going to ask people to be focused in their comments and questions and the reason is we have a couple other items that we need to address. I will start with you, rob.Thank you, chair. I want to comment on your report that was last year on the consent calendar and didn't get much attention and I made a comment to have a little bit of attention. Thank you for your presentation this time. I did want to address if it was clear to me that this chart is really vta passenger miles,greenhouse gas for the passenger vta per mile or the total region I feel want to caution against because we are doing a lot of stuff ourselves but I want to talk about recreating our goals. The first thing we can do is cut out our low bus performing bus lines and cut out some passenger miles. That would besuboptimizing for the region. I want to start thinking regionally. I would also say that I think there is a lot of analyses if you want to start building a climate plan and setting goals that are regional. You are going to need to do more complicated analysis and I would recommend looking at working with silicon valley clean energy authority, several f us are on the board there. And first, it's kind f like an analogy would be if we went and spent ought of our money nd bought electric buses, would be great for our emissions for what we have generated. Silicon valley did the same thing with buying 100% carbon electricity and I hope weare thinking more egionally and the analogy for that and let's build 700 buses. That's 3/4 of a billion dollars to do that and for the infrastructure to charge them. We are probably at a 3 billion dollars o do that.I'm getting maybe above a billion dollars. O I would want to see some analysis in our climate plan. Of course we want to move in that direction. I suspect that is not in the right direction. We are probablybetter saving in things that improve our ridership is probably better if we can significantly improve ourridership spending hundreds of millions of dollars versus a billion on uses probably would give us a better climate result than if we just bought all 700 buses. Those are the kinds of analysis I would hoped we woulddo in generating the climate plan that you talked about. It's also just switched and did we have a net ridership increase and was the reallocation good for our environment. So getting quickly back to the resolution, I think that the idea of I agree with dave that I think the resolution should be helping the board with making resolutions not just keeping a good sustainability plan in vta operations. I think I mentioned it last time so when we have big decisions to make and to that analysis and how this fits into the climate action plan.8:10 PMI want to say something in support of this and what the speaker was saying as part of the climate reality project. This isn't without details because what it's saying is that every single action that we take should take into account the consequences of the fact that we are facing a climate emergency. So it isn't without detail, quite the contrary, it's intended to be overarching. I think we are again, director rennie, I don't know if this is exactly what you are talking about, but the entire board of supervisors and started pushingfor us and started asking that on certain items and you have to think county government now given this example that i'm municipal government that we - want an impact statement on every actions that we take and not just in our social services agency we have or want n impact report on every action that we take.Just like with county government here and we have an item on those transmittals that say fiscal impact.Shouldn't we be looking at limate impact and shouldn't we be looking at other impacts as well. I think that's fairly aligned with what you are saying and I want to make sure the resolution itself doesn't get lost with in terms of putting the meat on the ones and how we want to actually implement the em bedding of this culture and taking into this operation. I fully agree and 3 having been around long enough to see the whole evolution of leadership on climate in terms of the fleet and many other things in vta. I don't thinkanyone should be defensive and no one in vta has said it doesn't have its fair share. This idea that strong agencies like this need to make a call for action and we are going to try to em bed this even morethoroughly in our thoughtfulness about our day-to-day actions. Appreciate your comments but I was wondering if some of us might be add odds and whether or not we should proceed or not and it sounds like not but how to do this in a very meaningful and transparent. Thoser my thoughts and if i'm off base, i'm open to being corrected by anyone.8:13 PMThank you. glen?Yes, first of all, I want to thank all the speakers that came who talked especially the students. When you get students 3 that come to the ouncil meetings, students speak and our ears perk up a little bit moreparticularly to the signal timing. Vta doesn't control the lights. In the city of sunnyvale we started a process with vta so we can actually do the signal work that needs o be done and 3 you need to get the cities to do that, not just vta. Vta is ready and open about that. Specifically to the presentation you gave is really good. What I would like to be able to see on this chart, you are talking about what greenhouse gasses are. It would be great to see what is the estimate of this being reduced and that might besomething we'll carry forward. If we are going to have a greenhouse project and maybe we'll have a calculation to know whether or not it is the right thing to do. I think all of us up here are elected fficialsand we are all doing in ur cities things about climate change. And most of those we did before we had declared kluge climate emergency. So the real question is what does it mean to declare a climate emergency? In my mind, you are asking us or we are asking ourselves to have a change in behavior.Change in behavior like that I know nobody wants to hear this usually implies a funding change, a different way of spending mney, more money. And as for what he was saying, i'm going through the list for what everybody is asking for nd that is way more that measure b. I think it would be very difficult for me to votefor a climate emergency that ties us to specific actions or changes without understanding the financial impact. As we said here, climate change we are going to all electric buses. If we don't know what that cost, we are potentially setting false expectations in our public. You will say you voted for climate change, why isn't that happening without us having to understand 3 the fiscal impact of what that means. I am not against saying there is a climate issue that we need to do that, I think this organization has already startedthat. But if we have a resolution, that resolution is going to tie us to specific changes, it would be verydifficult for me to go ahead and vote for that before I under stood how we would financially achieve that.8:17 PMWhat would we be doing different with this climate emergency? you have steps here. What would we do different?I don't know that that's a question for them. That's a question for us. They gave us a presentation on was what we are doing so you are all informed because as you probably noticed we don't have the resolution inour packet. His was an informational item to give feedback.Ecause it says potential future actions. If you are going to come back to us, were you coming with measurements that are very important, baseline and so forth. What do you see that --So some of the potential actions are potential because they are not funding yet and we are not approving them automatically.8:18 PMSo going board, regardless of, we are very proactive in the sustainability. What are we doing now presently? For sustainability?So that was the resentation that they gave us.We are not doing anything?No. current actions --No, going forward?If you want to give them feedback about ideas.I was just rying to figure out if we are doing anything bypassing a resolution. It goes along with director hendricks about if we do something, what are we going to do different. Was trying to figure out and what we are doing quiete a bit with sustainability fit matters that much different or effective enough. And what we are actually going to be doing stuff. That's what I was trying to get clarity on.8:19 PMI have some questions if I can ask some questions. I'm curious this slide that you just had up, the recommendation for climate emergency declaration. Help me understand. One of my colleagues was saying about is this evaluating one access ghg per mile? Is that what this is?The measure off the net ghg per passenger mile is basically the difference between our generated emissions that are emissions that are directly and indirectly subtracted by avoided emissions which is emissions that we have taken way because of getting people to switch from cars to transit, and then it'snormalized by passenger mile which basically accounts for the fact that we have a very big service area and so the distance our passengers tend to travel a lot farther than in other areas. That's a little bit of anexplanation of the metric. This is a very standard metric that our mention public transit association recommends in their guidance.8:20 PMSo, then, let me understand further, so this is about ow our operations and how our operations affect people's behaviors can change greenhouse gas emissions?8:21 PMCorrect.Okay help square for me these charges and other charts for ghg emissions, that chart is different?Correct. that chart is of all of our activities from fleets to facilities to waste and water that we use for ouroperations as well as what we use and a little bit of water.This is one of the inputs if you will in the other chart?Correct.That's the generated emission.In 16-17 we see our own generated emissions and 16-17 overall greenhouse gas emissions. Do I understand we are doing a good job with ur operations but there are more cars on the road, congestion isworse and -- focusing on efforts on more longer runs is that the problem?8:22 PMNot necessarily. I think just getting people out of their cars and into transit, that's one of the biggest difference we can make in greenhouse gas emissions.If we get someone out of their ar on a two mile ride versus 30 mile ride, we would prefer to get them out of a 30 mile ride, wouldn't it?8:23 PMI think it's change in behavior.I agree with you.Several of the speakers talked about new ceqa standards. That is the questions that I had. I support the things that my colleagues have said. I do think that we should include discussions both about our ownoperations and how our operations change in about people's behaviors and the cost about how we are informing about how we should be spending resources. When I first looked at this, I thought great, weshould look at how we can get all buses to be electric and that would be very expensive. I think that rather than knee jerk reaction that I had and the analysis is going to be super important for us. I appreciate you bringing this to us. I'm interested in looking at a resolution. I'm not interested in looking at a resolution tosay t's an emergency, but that we can say, we are going to do something about the emergency and there are some things in there that we want to analyze and there are some things that we want to change that we want to operate and ways we use this in our operations.8:24 PMThank you. I am so heartened by this conversation, not only the feedback we have received from the members of the public, but the suggestions, recommendations that the board members have made n the past few minutes. I just wanted to make two points. Buses really emit about 3% lower greenhouse gasemissions per passenger mile than any occupancy vehicle. That in itself speaks volumes. When christina was referring to this chart is based on those standards. It's recognized. I think everyone here understandand that's why it's such a positive call from the public as to urging us to take this post you're. Then the other thing too is keep in mind that carb has mandated this by 2040. We brought a recommendation to move towards electric buses. So we have a plan to implement that. So, yes, it is expensive. But that's a decision that we have made and we will continue to explore that as we bring forth updates to our fleet management plan and how we are going to adhesive that by 2023, I believe, we have to provide our plan to carve as to how we are going to get there and we have to make some in roads and we are making those in roads. Electric buses are not without a panacea and we are like cities that are just dealing within a smallsquare mile area. We have long distances that our buses travel and that means we need more buses per distance per others and we are looking at the hybrid we have today versus the electric as we are movingforward, and then more importantly is charging and where we get the charging stations and, it's a verycomplex process that is not easley solved by going and buying off the shelf and saying we can check the box because we have complied with the mandate. So there is further conversations that we would like to have through our committee structure about how we get there and what things would need to be possibly legislated to assist and possibly funding. You can get a diesel bus at $250,000, but an electric bus is almost a million.8:27 PMI'm ust going to wrap up with a couple next steps and move on.Thank you. I had one quick question about the electric buses and the leet and I know vta has been already looking at ways to offset peak power issues and interesting experiments going on which I think are goingto be very helpful for us. I'm curious if there have een other conversations with other local jurisdiction because in san jose Tuesday we are going to be directing staff to talk to some local school districts to talkabout how we cannen dupage in partnerships to pay they are to reserve electric buses as mobile energy sources. Because cities obviously throughout the state are experiencing these shut out events to our electric grid. But mobile lectric source maybe an asset and cover these costs to vta's procurement. Has sanjose reached out to you at all?8:29 PMI don't know if you can address this. #Gary, chief technology officer. E have been doing a lot of work with how to charge these vehicles, how far we can get them. There is still a lot of technology development still going on with electric vehicles. So, the whole ceb vehicle program has a lot to do yet. We have been looking at energy storage and I think with your school buses, is it in a great spot? Because you can actually charge, when you've got solar energy you can charge the bus in the middle of the day. When you have over generation and you can better manage with the power company has major over generation and you will be able to really use that nergy and actually make money.8:30 PMGary, i'm aware of that. where they are spending money on diesel generators. I would rather go to the school and know they have an general electric bus. Is that what you are engaging in? We are engaging in a number areas. Talking to the commission is coming out with a grant to look at alternative energy storage solutions and energy generation. As you know right now we already generate 2. 1 megawatts per hour in the summer. And our yard and some of the others can be expanded and talking about new ays with how to generate power and how to generate more energy at our yards and that unique idea and actually being able to in thermal energy and truck the thermal energy and being able to use it. This concept that is being able to allow us to become more on this generator.8:32 PMI think we'll follow up with san joseAnd see if we can include other cities.Yes, us, first. just joking.Take his mic.If there was, I don't know if our council would even allow us to, but since it's not an ction item. It seems a resolution isn't even an action. Can we just vote on a resolution and I would hate to go through all of this testimony all over again since it's so evident to us that we have a limate emergency.No, but thanks for trying.What I would like to do is there is no action to be taken. I think staff got direction and I want to thank scott and christina for your work and now we are woken up and we are bugging you. We are really excited about this and we know we are getting the resolution back next month. I will work with staff and I would encourage you all to -- you have a lot of feedback and reach out if you need to do that. By the way, if you have any ideas before that comes back, feel free to reach out to staff directly. Thank you for that discussion. Now we are going to item 6. 3. It bass taken off consent by Mr. Mcallister. so, john, do you want the staff to make a presentation or did you have a question?8:33 PMNo, I have a question.On your first page of the action item the very last paragraph states that the vta state of good repair backlog or funding gap is based upon a five year unconstrained. That is estimate on capital needs, what do you mean by unconstrained? [ off mic ]8:34 PMI can comment on your question. Unconstrained means is that oth resources financials with no object and we can replace everything whenever the useful life expired, this was what you would be looking at asexpenditure.Hen it goes to operational and financial risk to vta. How do you interpret that line? What kind of a risk is it to us? That here it won't be able to keep our euipment.8:35 PMI'm sorry, Mr. Mcallister, can you please repeat that.On the last line of this it states financial risk to vta.Again, I don't want to speak for the ag but I will take a crack at that. Just because something for example the useful ife is an accounting term and also an fta defined term because of the life of the bus, doesn't mean that we can stop using it. So their comment is based on assuming the real life also expressed basingon the accounting of useful life.I know as getting the equipment for the light rail to keep it up in a state of good repair is expensive because it's unique property or equipment the same as bart is very unique equipment too. I'm looking down the road that says, what should we be reading into this as we look forward or what consideration is vta doing to know that if they have to replace this equipment, could that $250 million gap be greater or smaller or how do we address it down the road?8:36 PMI wouldn't read that as a gap in investment. There is a note no. 4 on this. I would look at it a little bit closely. This is all based on replacing everything with the light kind of fleet, equipment and assets. If the technology changes, there could be cost deficiencies. That's not factored into this.Okay, there is one light car rail with that and on the part of the suppliers. That's what I was concerned about that we can find alternatives.8:37 PMWas that all of your questions? With that, i'm going to open the public hearing, I have no speaker cards.I'm going to close the public hearing. Are we ready for a motion. With that, please vote. All in favor say,'aye'.Aye.Any opposed? we'll pass it back to the chair.> we are now moving on. we have a closed session and requires action. So no leaving. We are now moving to other items 8. Other items (verbal report)8:38 PMThank you. we have a lot of programs and initiatives on the docket. We are expecting to have full quorum at all of our standing committee meetings to get to address your concerns to bring forth to the board. Iwould like to take this opportunity to announce the appointment. I know I sent a memo to you all. David hill as you remember was our deputy chief operating officer and now the chief operating officer for vta.David, if you will please stand. [ applause ] he has decades of transit experience and with san francisco transportation agency and the birmingham transit authority. He comes to us in this position very wellpositioned because he has such a great team that can keep things moving forward and support him. Heidi is in the room and she's a deputy for the us and he also has steve and lisa vickory and the transportation service manager andrew burke who is also responsible for transit and we have a new leader in that groupand we'll be able to resolve those concerns of existing and future customers. Next, I wanted to congratulate board member rob peralez who was recognized on 40 under 40 by the commuter transportation for shifting behaviors and transforming communities. [ applause ] thank you very much. Youcontinue to shine your leadership on the transportation front and we not only celebrate you but, oh, oh, even if you are but we are delighted to learn about that. On the good news. [ laughter ] on the good ews front, I also want to add that the vta received an a cguia engage award for the design of the website that it was user centered and data driven approach. They thought it was so awesome that they gave us an award.Cody, if you can just stand because cody was the project manager of the website redesign and because ofhis creativity, dedication and hard work, he got it done. It is user friendly. 4 out of 5 in our survey said thank goodness for making that change. Now, on saturday, December 28th, we deployed our new transitservice plan and we received a lot of accolades and a lot of recommendations and a number of complaints.We have attempted to address them all. We are not even at two weeks since it is deployed. We are going to have some bumps in the road. I want to thank those who e-mailed and called me and showed up andmentioned their concerns and our business is to make sure that our customers can get to where they want to go and when they want to get there. It's barely two weeks. We are going to be coming to this board every month and providing updates. Please direct any calls that you get relative to complaints, concerns, or lack of information to our offices through customer service and planning. Rick has personally met with callers and those who raised concerns. We want to make sure you know that we are not dismissing thesecomplaints or thinking about them as early going through this ride on the early stage but we are still taking it very seriously. With that, I would like to ask jay and brandy to give you a quick update on whatwe learned so far.8:43 PMWe are 13 days in our new service network. I will provide you the implementation and challenges. This is a 40 year event. We have never done anything of this magnitude in our service plan in vta's 40 year plus history. This is a big deal and major change coming after 18 months of community engagement and the ridership discussions hat we had and the decisions that we made with the board as well. Remember theboard did elect adopt this plan, it's a very bold plan moving s from a 730 to a 9010 network. Even in the feedback we are getting. It's a bold pan. Change is difficult, it's not easy. The last thing I wanted tomention before I talk about the roll out is there is a lot of discussion about cutting service and routes and cutting service in certain areas. I want to mention that ever penny of service that we cut in any area was reallocated somewhere else. Keep that in mind. You see a lot of red on this map. We are focusing on service on areas that are transit supportive that carry more riders and this is how we are going to achieve the ridership increases with the same levels. That's on the bus. On the level there is an 11% increase on the rail service as well. On the roll out timing was interesting because it was over the holiday period which was great because it helped us work out the kinks when ridership wasn't so high. This is something we are implementing in 12-18 months versus six months. Is it perfect? no. The first example is our top priority from minute one was any safety issues that have come up. One example I will use was we discovered veryearly on Saturday morning is that our buses couldn't make a you turn that we planned them making at the lockheed martin transit center up to sunnyvale. We put our heads together got at plan to reallocate and we are no longer making that you turn that was in a few days. I wanted to emphasize that safety was our no.1 concern. We prioritized those issues. There are plenty other feedback issues, I will give a few examples like san fernando. You know these temporary bus boarding lines and we were moving all of our service san fernando to santa clara street and that was causing causing rider confusion. As you will see on the screen here to those islands to tell people there is no service here. It's at santa clara street. We put up caution tape and signs. Five signs to make sure hat our riders knew that the service was moving to san fernando.The next stops at the transit locations. Within just a few hours again of opening of launch day we gotfeedback from riders and operators that maybe the other side of the street would be better and within the week, we moved that to the end of the street. Finally the other thing that I will mention that didn't work out so well for the first few days we had some head signs that are above the windows on the buses and the trains. We discovered because of some software, I don't know what to call it, firmware versionincompatibilities, some display 3 signs were not complying. So we made some quick signs and we began the work of figuring out what was technically wrong which took 3-4 days. We have overcome that as well.So happy we put that in the rear view mrror. There are big beautiful sgns. We eed to move some structures onto poles. And signs for palo alto are coming shortly. I do want to mention one issue about the light rail network. It really does rely on precise timing especially with these base point transfers and what we are discovering is the intersection there is 23 por -- more trains backing up. We have reached out to the city of san jose and staff level and we've gotten a great esponse and we have a task to set off thatissue. It's going to be tough because there are a lot of issues that play here. It's a very technical thing. We are still working on that. And as the general manager mentioned we are still collecting all of this feedbackfrom riders. It's great feedback. We got a tweet from a rider that said, why don't you make the signs double sided because you have to walk to the other side to see what route it is. That's a great idea. We canrepurpose the old one and it doesn't cost us anything. It's ideas like that to make our system. It's a good opportunity to hear from the riders because we don't do this often. We are looking forward to thatfeedback. We are going to get more feedback when all the colleges are back in session. San jose state later this month. We are looking forward to that. And we are asking to report anything.8:49 PMThis will be quick. good evening and happy new year. We are getting various feedback through our service channels and e-mails, phone calls and social media channels which are often where we get a lot of complaints and we have been seeing entities like san jose spotlight and they are picking up on that. I havealso encouraged them to at a you can to riders who are pleased with the service because we have quite a bit of people too. As jay mentioned what was good for us to hear is that people heard about the changes that were happening. It's not like they weren't aware. That was a goal 20 se to see this was happening andpeople asking to bring the lines back. The accounts, that was a huge effort. We had people at the lines talking to people. Lot of customers appreciate the frequent network that we have now. We had vta employees over the holiday knockout 420 shifts. That's about 2,000 hours, that doesn't even account for the multilingual street team that we contracted with that also did another 200 shifts about 1200 hours face-to-face. We got a tremendous amount of feedback and we understand that change is naturally frustrating but we are here to help people navigate those changes and find alternative trip plans. Thankyou for passing along the information. We have been attentive and esponsive and will continue to document everything for the record and continue to update the board.8:51 PMJust a few final points what I neglected to mention one of the things that we are very proud of here at vta is the increase in service of those very frequent transit routes. A lot of those are in minority areas. We are very excited about this new transit plan because they are better markets including down to gilroy andmarket. We are very proud of that. What's coming up next, starting to start talking about too early -ridership. I will report in February at the meeting and we'll be monitoring and making adjustments and tweaks and fix things that go wrong and in the summer we'll talk about the 2021 service plan.8:52 PMThank you.Enththank you very much. I want to quickly thank member o'neill and rennie and chavez and hendricks for joining us on the opening of the deployment on the new ransit service plan which started with a 2:30 a. M.And ended at 5:45 p. M. . Thank you for being with us.8:53 PMIt was awesome.Thank you.Do you have any questions?Not a question, but a thank you. I appreciate that and the work you are doing. Thank you.Now to compliance requirements. I wanted to give the board a heads up that next month we will be bringing an action to you for your consideration. As you May know vta is required to submit a title 6 program to the fta triannually and the next required submittal is February 2020. The next board meeting, we will present you with a summary and ask you to approve the program. The other item on my report isthe government affairs and that's in your reading binder as well as the information and security stats.Before I conclude, I want to mention that you should have a book called beyond mobility and to start to think about the future and people nd places and how public transportation contributes through it and landuse and planning.8:54 PMExcellent. first of all I want to say to our board and the staff what an amazing job you did rolling this out.It wasn't ever going to be perfect, but all the people that were out no matter what your job was fixing signs and responding to customers. It's just such an impressive way to start 20 and to end 2019. For my colleagues and most of you because I need you all to stay for closed session. I'm going to be makingcomments on what i'm going to be focused on. First of all i'm very, very excited. We have a very good smart board and really good and lots of different smart aspects on very good information. I had theopportunity to see when I was flying back a really short tory on one of those vignettes. A local guy who was from morgan hill. The science guy, didn't he live in south county for a short time, he did for a while.Maybe I just made that up. Anyhow, but here was the thing it was really interesting is that he made thiscomment as an environmentalist and a scientist that I thought was really thoughtful. He said, you know, we can't do things one at a time. We have to do everything all at once. So what does that mean for vta? It means that we are going to have to be focused on ridership and the sustainability of this organization. We have to get people on public transportation. We have to be able to focus on sustainability and the reason Iwant us to look at measure b is we need to be flex you believe because we have two crisises. One, we don't have enough people riding transportation riding vta transportation and we are going to have to throweverything we can. This year is the anniversary of women's right to vote. And the challenges, you know, under nuria's leadership this has been the most diverse and the most women that you will see in almost any property across the country, but we have to igure out a way to let women know these are great jobs for two reasons, ne, they are great jobs. Vta is a great place to work. Two, these are very very livable wages. I know and I know this is a top place to live, but this is a great place for women to be able to 3make a living and three and this is maybe as important, we don't have enough people helping us. Like every single one of our agencies across the region does not have enough bus drivers and deficit can be as high as 20%. There are not enough mechanmechanics. I want us to focus n bringing in new more faces that are a little bit less han traditional. Lastly, this is a little bit where I started as it relates to climate. I really appreciated although it added more time than I expected, mayor, your point with how we are going to deal with batteries. It reminded me with this one thing is we need to think about partnerships in anurgent way, I don't mean in that old fashion let's have two meetings and figure out how to work together, but I think we need to take the coalition of the willing and start digging in on a bunch of issues. It's goingto force this board to make some tough decisions about do we fund projects that don't meet multiple goals. Do we, we took a brave step. I think the 9010 changing was good. It is really not enough. I'm going to remind all of you and I heard joe mcallister that said that we all sat around and did great things. We talked about innovation and technology and going back to our cities and be brave and that got killed almost instantly. We tried to get everybody in the valley to sign onto a resolution about taking a look at those really ard discussions and that one was the first one to go. The reason I say that is that we all feel like we are brave in our own areas. I want to make sure we have courageous conversations in very respectful ways, john, i'm not calling you out for any reason but when you said it, I remembered that meeting too because I had a sense of hope and then not so much. What I think is we are all really good at our jobs and this is an opportunity for us to have courageous conversations that really move us forward in a bunch of different ways. I'm going press us to do everything all at oce. Doesn't that sound great. Allright. Good. This is going to be so fun. So much for my comments. What's that? No, i'm not talking to staff, i'm talking about us. Yes, we are going torture you all too, but it's really going to be us. With that, did I have a report. T's a see separate sheet. Was that my report? excellent. So we are going to move to 8.3. Terms of concern and referral to administration. I will start with raul. E have a workshop on the 24. We have a tight agenda. They had five hour meeting. We could not do that for a bunch of reasons. It's not good for our health and not good for the public. All right. Raul.Thank you, chair. I heard some concerning comments through the opening public comments on our vta access and paratransit that soundnd like someone who was very proud of the service and had something go wrong. I know that staff talked to her. That maybe we have further an audit. But for more immediate Iwould like staff to come up with a report. I don't know if there is any surveys that we do. I would like to see how that an sort of be resolved and maybe whether it's to the full board or just to myself. I'm alsointerested in the resolution with the individual that was here. Thanks.Excellent. thank you.Any other referrals? any other announcements?I have a comment and go back to what you just said. When I look at the roll out of our new services and you look at the red line on the map, one of those big red lines is el camino real corridor. I want to lead theeffort one more time if we choose to do that because we are going to have a lot more service and if we still have the same amount of cars and we don't have dedicated use f our lanes in our peak travel times, we are going to have a lot of buses to tail. I'm willing to lead that effort one more time and try to get it across the finish line.Excellent. all right. rob said he's helping, right? All right. Excellent. He was. I wouldn't do that to him. Are there any other announcements that folks have? Seeing none, we are going to