Chair, we have a quorum. Thank you.Elaine, this is carrasco. i'm here.Thank you.We'll start out by saying that i'm honored to serve as the chair of the vta board of directors this year.Thank you all for your support. Welcome back. It's great o see all of the same faces of our board. 2021 was a challenging year for all of us especially vta as we navigated through the impacts of covid-19, the devastating cyberattacks and the devastating shooting in our yard. Thank you to our former chair hendricks. Thanks to all of my fellow board members for your diligence and insight as together we met thechallenges of 2021 that brought us together to overcome them. The vta administration and employees, thank you for your dedication to our services especially throughout the pandemic. All of vta continues to provide critical transportation and planning as we lead out the responsibilities to the citizens of santa claracounty. You are all amazing and all deserve to work in a place you love and look forward to working at everyday. Our general manager will be addressing that shortly. But I want to emphasize -- that we will continue our service. For those of you who know me, I am very interested in collaborating with cities andfinding paths forward for our issues and serve all of our constituents. I have served on the vta board and committees for the past seven years. I care about the future. The town and staff that makes vta possible and understand the value and critical role that we play in connecting and enhancing our region via smart transit, reducing congestion and now recently addressing the region's housing crisis and development. As vice-mayor of district one and santa rosa, santa clara and cupertino, I have learned about the value of collaboration to bring us together. I have been able to bring this high capacity through diridon and togetherwith cupertino and santa clara and the county, we have been working to improve mobility and meet our shared communities together.5:36 PMFirst step is to get a vision set off ground which we are currently addressing. I also served on the board ofdirectors and served as president this year. As your chair, I am here to listen to your needs, wants anddesires. I look forward to working with everyone of you that are representing all of our cities and the county at the moment. I look forward to working with you to continue the vta board to meet the needs of our employees. Now more than ever, it's time too look at the future transit values. For me, the future ftransit means being able to get to transit and destination faster and do it seamlessly. One example of this is mobility as a service. Just imagine if you knew when that bus was going to arrive at the bus stop and you get there just before the bus arrives, you can make your connection and go to your final destination and take a ride share and bicycle or scooter and is all seamless, already paid for upfront in advance and wehave a system that really allows you to have a seamless experience. The key objective behind the ability of the services is to offer mobility solutions based on travel needs through a unified gateway that creates andmanages the trip. Today, roughly 80% of us use our vehicles for transportation and 5% of us use publictransportation. Based on these numbers alone, I believe that we can all agree that we are not there yet. I believe that we can get there using technologies like this service. To accomplish this mobility, we need toprovide this service and provide faster and be more innovative. A project in palo alto, residents of santa clara May want to take bart to get to san jacinto. As we know, the $108 billion bipartisan infrastructure billhas just passed and the next one is being discussed. Let's be sure we are ready at the table pushing our region and have a plan to show what those things are. And to do active planning for the future of our transit. I realize that measure b was the subject of robust discussion of this past year and I am proud ofour board for our countywide critical projects. There has been a lot of talk about government change at the vta and especially -- our own recommendations on how to improve the function of the organization. Let's bring all of our class together to show those efforts and listen to one another, collaborate and help improve our ability. I am hopeful in 2022 and look forward to working with our members and all of you to bring vta forward. Now moving on to item 1. 3. Orders of the day. Today's agenda slightly different from our previous agendas. We will move things around to try to make this meeting more efficient. There is a request to defer item 6. 17, csc appointments. Are there any changes from my colleagues?5:42 PMWe are going to orders of the day.[roll call]Thank you. item passed.Now we'll go to awards and commendations for the 2021 board chairperson glen hendricks. We will now take public comment on this item. Do we have any hands raised for this item?5:43 PMYes, we have two members of the pblic. Joe followed by eugene. Public speaker: thank you, I would like to thank chair hendricks for being chair this past year. I know it's been a difficult year. I just want to say thanks.Public speaker: I also echo joe's comments. Words cannot describe how difficult last year's vta was. To say 2021 will live locally and is just wow, incredible. I want to thank also glen hendricks for working throughvta after everything we've gone through and all through an on going global pandemic. My applause to you, Mr. Hendricks. Thank you.5:44 PMNext, blair, public speaker: hi, blair beakmam here. Just a thank you to board chair member hendricks.He's done great work and been interesting with him at the helm and now chairman jones. [roll call]5:45 PMMotion passed. thank you.5:46 PMA few highlights.Commending glen hendricks.Whereas he provided guidance and the board's security benefits for the past and future vta employees, and whereas glen hendricks met the efforts to finalize the 2016 measure b spending plan and the ten yearprogram, and whereas under glen hendricks hendricks' leadership under the federal transportationadministration for the bart extension to silicon valley project. Whereas vta will be forever grateful for the exceptional leadership that glen hendricks demonstrated during unprecedented number of challenges with the cyberattack and pandemic of 2021 and whereas directed $20 million in funding to support vta and employees and recovery from the tragedy. And whereas glen hendricks extraordinary steadiness andconcern for the well-being of the employees and families to get through tragedy. Now therefore be it resolved that the vta board members declare its sincerest appreciation for his work at vta in 2021.5:48 PMCan we all give glen a big appreciation.Thanks, glen.Thank you all.5:49 PMWe appreciate your service. 2021 has presented many challenges. For us still being here is a reflection of your outstanding leadership and resilience, tenacity and compassion and p interest in the riders and the public and you value the people first. It's countless the number of hours that you met with the public andemployees. You showed up every time. That to me is dedication and encouraged and inspired me. Since you like haikus, we have prepared one for you. Strength and compassion, water navigated, aloha, thank you. Glen, would you like to say a few words?5:50 PMYes, I would. thank you very much for those comments. Hello to everyone. I would like to first thank vta staff for my parting gifts. It took a while to think of something for me. Thank you for that. To say 2021 has been a year it is the biggest statement. We knew covid was still here, half the board was new, our gm leftto work for the federal government and we had the cyberattack, the coach operator was shot in the back, the May 26 tragedy occurred and this was clearly a life changing event. We hired our new gm and carolyn,you are doing a great job. We started our light rail service, our employee support program and our employees kept vta running relative to the public. All this happened while our employees came to work during covid and continued to provide great service to our riders. I want to thank all of our employees. Youhave been just fantastic for the whole year. As a board, we held 31 board meetings, 14 regular workshops and 14 special meetings. Most of these included closed sessions and they were all virtual meetings. I believe that I hold the record for calling the most vta meetings in a year and hat is a record that no one should try to break. Take note of that. I want to thank y colleagues for being engaged and involved and for making the time to do all of these meetings and the business we do and policies to do our work. Nothing I did s a board member was as difficult as what the families went through for the tragedy. I want to sayagain i'm sorry for the pain and difficulty they have gone through. For the families and the remaining loss, they are not forgotten by me, the vta board and organization. Many thanked me for my leadership and that I was the right person at the helm of the organization. I'm going leave that assessment up to everyone else. All I will say is thank you for those sentiments. I will say that as a board, we worked as a team to address these issues and i'm pleased and proud to see that the board and the management and labor leaders are working as a team to make the vta teamwork better. I want to thank the public for beingpatient and supporting vta and our employees are working as hard as they can to create a network hat you can be proud of. I want to thank the board for entrusting me last year. You entrusteds the board chairposition to me and appreciate that. I want to thank vice-chair and chair jones for their work. Chappie, I want to thank you for the haiku, but in close, someone is asking where is the haiku. The chair is not boring. Elaine and team are awesome, meetings be shorter. Thank you all. It was a difficult but veryinteresting ride last year.5:54 PMThank you, glen.5:55 PMMay I please ask my colleagues to turn on their video for a photo.Just one second.I got it. thank you all.Thank you.We have director chavez.5:56 PMThank you. I would like to say how lucky we are to have you. Thank you for your job, not just well done, but done with a lot of compassion and hand strength at the same time. Thank you.Thank you.Would anyone of my other colleagues like to say anything?Director liccardo?Thanks for everything you did last year.Hank you.Next on the agenda is item 2. 2.5:57 PMRecognize perlita juria, project controls specialist ii, she has been a consistent employee. Her work ethic isimpressive. She goes beyond the call of duty and her colleagues value here usefulness andcongratulations. Capital project controls; p freddie ferrer, coach operator, has been a top contributor during our annual food drive. Congratulations. Cerone transportation; and marisa salazar, service worker, north maintenance as employees sen of the first (1st) she adds her spirit o everyone around her and she has a high performance standard. Congratulations. Quarter of 2022. Also recognize connie yu, senior accountant,capital & revenue accounting department as supervisor of the first (1st) quarter of 2022. Is not able to join us tonight. Connie is also a compassionate leader. During the pandemic, she regularly checks in with herstaff to make sure they are doing well. Congratulations to connie. May I ask my colleagues to turn on their video for a group photo.5:59 PM> got it.Thank you.6:00 PMNext item. reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction but not on the agenda. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. This section of the agenda is limitedto no more than 30 minutes but could be extended at the discretion of the chairperson. Those who requested to speak but were unable to address the board on item #3 due to the time limit will have the opportunity to address the board on the second public comment, under 'other items'. The law does not permit board action or extended discussion of any item not on the agenda except under specialcircumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing. Before we call on speakers, I would like to remind the callers to adhere to our rules.6:01 PMFirst dreshgt your comments to the board and not to any specific person or group. Personal attacks are notappropriate and using slander and prohiremarks are prohibited. Speakers who do not follow the request will not be allowed to speak.6:02 PMIf you want to address the board on matters not on the agenda, press star 9.We have two.First nino, followed by joe.Public speaker: can you hear me?Yes.My name is mark. in September board meeting, I came before you to bring awareness -- four months later, nothing has changed. The department's manager continues to be in a hostile working environment not just for me but my coworkers. It has been 13 months since this manager has not spoken to me nor provided leadership. This behavior has caused me stress, depression and anxiety. I met with ocs at the last meeting but have not heard anything from that office. He will tell you all the wonderful things he's doing forcustomer service but he won't tell you how he's affecting my mental health. At this point I have no choice but to seek assistance outside of vta. Thank you.6:03 PMNext we have joe, followed by blair and then john. Public speaker: thank you. I would like to address this and attack to democracy is an attack to all transit riders because riders need democracy when thisindividual threatened to attack vta, I want to publicly thank our board and democracy and to the best of your knowledge board. I lso want to thank your staff. Intrusions were disrupted by both the attack. I wasdisheartened to see the issues were not addressed.6:04 PMBlair? public speaker: thank you. I wanted to quickly comment on roland's situation. We are all trying to work on this standard on how public comment process can be. Thank you for offering what could be good standards. I think we are trying to be friendly and yet when we can be angry and critical at the same time.That's hopefully we can work on that together. I hope roland's sentence can e reduced to 3 months and hope he doesn't make that sort of threats again. We don't need that. As far as the erryessa --6:06 PMJohn?Public speaker: good eening, board. Hopefully we can fix some things that my brother is talking about. We are all now in full knowledge of what's going on. He let you all know, that department, these departments, I understand there is an rfp for a third party to come out, but some things cannot wait. I don't know what's going on in customer service, but I support bismarck's comments 100%. He is speaking out on behalf of perhaps a majority of that group. So, we need to fix that and we had a meeting to address some of the issues. It got canceled for whatever reason. We can't continue to look the other way. These of the kinds of things that are festering that is nerve going to be able to turn the clock back on. Please payingattention to what mark is saying and let's fix that rom the inside out.6:07 PMThat concludes public comment.Thank you, moving on to next section of our agenda.And take the following actions as required by california government code 4217. 12: (1) determine that thecerone solar panel, microgrid, and electric bus charging contracts are in the best interests of vta at aregularly scheduled public hearing, public notice of which is given at least two weeks in advance; (2) make the finding that the anticipated cost to vta for electrical energy provided by the contracts will be less than the anticipated marginal cost to vta of electrical and other energy that would have been consumed by vtain the absence of the contracts; and (3) authorize staff to issue noncompetitive contracts to vta's project partners (scale microgrid solutions, proterra, lehigh university engineering department and pg&e) for thecalifornia energy commission's zero-emission transit fleet infrastructure deployment grant.6:08 PMThank you, chair. good evening, everyone.I'm sorry, I need to recuse myself.6:09 PMThis is to allow staff to initiate the contract and this is the last one before they will authors -- authorize $4 million to vta. We will install infrastructure at the bus yard, solar panels, micro grid, 34 chargers. And would provide the infrastructure to help us charge our next battery electric bus order which will come into our fleet in about two years from now. Our funding strategy is to pair $11 million in funds that we have today with our energy commission grant award. The total project cost is $16. 4 million. Which $14. 5 million would go to contracts to our project partners. Those partners, will help us build this infrastructure and were our co-applicants in the grant application to the commission and we are looking to give them about $14. 5 million in contract value. We also want to do that on a non-competitive basis. $14. 5 million is where vta would normally pursue the process and letting that nature of rocess ensuring we are getting thehighest quality of service and in this time of the release grant being available for the application and the deadline was too short and precluded that process. That is not to say that this process does not ensurethat we are getting the best cost. And reviewing the unit cost and labor cost and qualification of the firms that we applied with. They also were very interested in a return on investment making ure the money they gave out was being spent to the greatest efficiency. There were about 20 applicants to this program and vta was one of seven that received funding. Now four non-competitive contracts and entering if you can satisfy the request. First that the project would result in overall cost savings for the agency. The project will pay for itself in 12-13 years and wo week public notice of intent to use gc 4217. To recap here, we are asking the board to authorize staff to issue contracts that is different from the actual issuance of contract that will be confirmed in 2022 and that is to award us $4. 7 million set aside for us. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:12 PMThank you. we will now open the public hearing.Mr. Chair, this is member liccardo. I'm going to recuse myself.6:13 PMPublic speaker: hi, blair bein being -- working on this renewable now, we are going o be in good shape for the next few years. We can count not only the renewable process but the local procurement at the locallevel. That's what's really interesting and local. If we have by any chance any sort of natural disasters in the next few years, if it is happening, it allows us to get back to this after a natural disaster. And hopeful and to do this hopeful work that will prepare us as well and brings our best.6:14 PMNext speaker, please. john? public speaker: this is john, from atu 65, I promise I won't speak on every item, but when we talk about these emerging technologies in the system and in santa clarita - santa claraand the country for that matter, we are not talking about installation. I'm hoping that we can put in some sort of training for the use of the equipment, the installation of the equipment, and my desire would be for in-house with vta. To install something and we scratch our head and don't know where to turn it on isirresponsible. I would appreciate we have the charging stations and we need to be prepared.6:15 PMThat concludes public comment.Thank you.Public comment for this item is now closed. Any questions from my colleagues? I'm looking for raised hands. Director hendricks?I don't have any questions, but whenever you are ready, i'm ready to make a motion.Okay, ready.I move we close the hearing and authorize the board -- he board will authorize staff to issue contracts to the project partners as laid out in the staff report.Thank you. motion by director hendricks. Can I get a second?6:16 PMSecond gilmore.Second by gilmore.Let's do a roll call.If I can make a few comments, chair?Crtainly.I see that this is in the best interest of the vta and can make the findings here and moves us in our strategic direction that we want to do and i'm sure carolyn took the note about the comment of training.6:17 PMThank you.Roll call, please.[roll call]Motion passed. thank you.Thank you.We will now go to item 5. this section is different from the previous agenda. We added a section.Committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (swaminathan) thank you and congratulations onbeing elected the cac chairch #6:18 PMHank you for your kind words and good evening, members of the board. The committee met and wereceived feedback on the better bus program which is on your agenda packet tonight. We also conducted our election for the 2022 committee leadership and i'm honored to serve as chair. I served under the previous chair and I learned the ropes and have been able to help me transition during our terming out of the members. And also would make this a second term as well. Our regular cac meetings will be held Monday January 12, 4:00 p. M. Via teleconference and videoconference. This concludes my presentation.I'm available for questions.6:19 PMThank you. i'm looking to see any questions. I don't see any. Next tem. (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore) who is here to provide brief report.Okay, thank you and good evening incoming chair jones. And I want to echo my appreciation for utgoing chair hendricks during such a challenging year and doing so with grace and strength under pressure. On friday, December 9, 2021, the pac provided input on the faster fare collection study which will look at ways to remove barriers for residents living in communities for implementing a cash fare less system and usingthe viability transit in the communities across santa clara county. Members suggested outreach to school districts, faith communities and transportation management associations. Also recommended to staff to find ways to encourage equity and look at the board for challenges by using the transit themselves. We received a report of the pac nomination subcommittee on members volunteering for committee leadership for 2022. The pac will vote on their chair vice-chair at the January meeting and will submit a report and the program update. The next pac meeting is scheduled for Thursday January 13, 2022 at 4:00 p. M. And will be conducted as a zoom teleconference. Thank you.6:21 PMThank you. reports for items chairpersons' report. (verbal report) are in the online packet. There is no report for chairpersons' report. (no report)) we will now take comment for all items under 5. 1 reports. Arethere any speakers?6:22 PMYes, blair, you May begin speaking when ready. Public speaker: hi. It didn't give me the unmute button. For the fast pass item, alameda transit is working on these ideas. They are really considering free fare days and how that can be part of the system to drop mass transit riders. Good luck to connecting the community with these ideas. Free fare days and this concept is very important. I hope you can talk about it openly more. Good luck on how you can do that. Thank you.6:23 PMThat is your public comment.All right. public comment for item 5. 1 is now closed. Now to item 5. 2. General manager's report. Carolyn, our gm ill speak on that item.Thank you. before I start my report, I also want to thank board member hendricks for just his efforts as chair last year, really the strength and compassion, his grace with how he handled those situation allowed staff to do their work and focus on the issues as he was out there front facing and working with all of us, the board members, as well as the region with the employees and management. I really really doappreciate his, just him being there for all of us. So, thank you. To go into my next report, I want to peak on the vaccine and testing. This omicron variant is very important. We are setting the clinics and testing sites. We have provided vaccines to over 200 employees and their families as well. We will do this as long as it takes to get people vaccinated. The next testing site will be set up January 12th. I want to thank jim garcia and Mr. Acosta for staffing these sites and vta's departments. We couldn't do that without the department of our unions and to keep our employees safe. The next area I want to talk about is the human trafficking awareness month. We are working t on public awareness and that those be vigilant and as they go about their day-to-day duties and showing the blue heart logo and that is an initiative on the drugs and crime to combat trafficking. Vta will start a more robust educational campaign for employees later this spring with funding from the federal transit administration. The next area is wildlife connectivity that is going to occur on state route 152 in south county. Vta is a partner in an effort to minimize or completely prevent the collision with vehicles and wildlife through the pass. Two grants were awarded by the wildlifeconservation board for projects along state route 152 in santa clara county. Vta joins cal trans, wildlife and vta rail and other stakeholders in helping the region to develop two safe routes. This is designed for awildlife over pass along 152 along the pass particularly focused on mountain lions. The second is a $400,000 grant. Lastly, we've actually been fortunate. We've had some really great coverage in the last few weeks. They have started a great communication team and any action going on throughout theagency. This included a future story on telemundo on bus operator felipe who received 4 invitations and she's only 16 years old. Her father is a 19 year vta veteran and always encouraged his children to chasetheir academic future. The other one is a great story that aired on channel 5. I'm going to ask for that video.6:28 PMThis is elaine. give me a moment to get that video ready. Can you all see my screen?Yes.Thank you.6:32 PM( video)So the last item is the government affairs report and there is a report in your binder and that concludes y report.Thank you, carolyn. we will now take public comment on this item. A reminder, please focus yourcomments only on the gm report.Blair followed by john. you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: blair beingman here.Thank you for the report. Thank you for the report on the issue. San jose is considering the idea of how to make this mandate. I hope you don't have to go to that stage for workers. The booster and what it can offer. I think you can get a fairly good number of employees who want to be part of the process. Try tomake the whole vaccine process more understandable each day and what exactly the vaccine process is going to be about. And I spoke about the policies.6:33 PMJohn? you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: why do we do what we do? That's exactly what we do. It's a reminder of why we are here. The board is here for folks like eric. What aninspiration. I have met many times with eric and there is many many stories like his amongst the employees here. Thank you very much for sharing that video. It was beautiful.6:34 PMThat concludes public comment, chair.Thank you, public comment for item 5. 2 is now closed. Are there any questions for our general manager from my colleagues? And I don't see any hands raised. Thank you again carolyn for that report. We are now onto item 6. Skip consent agenda items. Does anyone want to pull an item on consent or add an item to the agenda? Director chavez?6:35 PMThank you, I would like to recuse myself from 6. 3 and 6. 11.6:36 PMDirector peralez?Yes, similarly, I would like to recuse myself from item 6. 2 and 6. 3. That's for government code -- section --Ayor liccardo?I would like to make a question about item 6. 3. It seems like it's two years and unilateral ability to extend for three years. The concern is it could get stuck in a situation where the economy is improving. We obviously want to have improved terms for the agency and we'll be stuck, unable to get out if it's a unilateral ability for clear channel. Can you help me understand if this is a unilateral ability for clear channel that will be in our best interest?6:37 PMHair jones, I would be happy to answer the question. This is ron goldman.Sure.To the question that you are asking, all the contracts we have for information and convenience. Because of this procurement, we are going to have to make a decision after the first year as to whether or not we want to continue beyond year two. Clear channel has a right from their end but they have to give us notice. Because with this procurement, vta is going to have to decide whether in the first year you want tostart that continuation and then we pivot and to proceed. The intent is not to lock us into this. The intent is to make a decision within two years and then if we want to continue, we go that option and if we couldn't reach agreement, we would basically terminate it after year two and proceed with the new offering.6:38 PMOkay, I think you are saying we have we have an exit?Yes.Okay. I appreciate that information. Thank you, ron.So, are there any other abstentions or recusals.6:39 PMChair jones this is director chavez. I'm going to recuse myself from 6. 3, 6. 5 and 6. 11.Okay.Director peralez, are there any additional items that you want to recuse from?No, I apologize.All right. we'll now open public comment for items on consent.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi. Blair beakman here on worker's comp issues. The omicron maybe serious through the end of January and in February May be a time to review. We May be in better shape. Good luck in January for omicron issues and for community safety and from that balance for having that vaccine mandate. I wanted to, there is a couple other tems that I wanted to offer with my minimal amount of time here. 6. 2 is an item that's of interest to me. The advertising stuff. Make sure it's full of reimagined equity and raised equity for military service. No industrial stuff,please. Thank you.6:40 PMThat concludes public comment, chair.Thank you. I will now close public comment on consent. May I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?6:41 PMI move consent.Second by cnstantine.Excuse me chair, I think it's 17 what's not being voted on, correct?Yes. 6. 17 is not being voted on.All right.6:42 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] chavez is recusing on 6. 2, 6. 3 and 6. 11, peralez reactioning on 6. 2 and 6. 3.The motion is passed.Thank you.Or closed session tonight is split. The first item for discussion is 7 motivate 1 a. Public comment?6:43 PMPublic speaker: yes, I would like to commend your staff for changing this agreement. Overwhelmingly it was supported and I believe that overwhelming support for this direction, the 3 direction that that tentative agreement brings us to is basically staying positive and a first step. I'm encouraged that we can move on with a contract between the biggest unit at vta and button down on some other extremely important things. Once again, I want to say thank you, carolyn and the other members that support this action. It's an incredible big move for our agency. Thank you.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, I just wanted to thank you for thenegotiated efforts on all sides to work on this thing. Good luck to good continued safety and good health practices as an agency, and moving into a more positive framework in 2022. Thank you.6:44 PMThat concludes public comment, chair.Thank yu. I will now close public comment for item 7. 1. A.7:11 PMRecording was Paused7:12 PMBoard members, the closed session's team's link is sent by the board office. Please click that> thank you. we are now back in open session.7:13 PMCarolyn will provide the closed session report.Thank you, chair. the board did not ake any reportable section on item 7. 1a. So now we will go to the regular agenda. The first item on the regular agenda is item 8. 1.8. 1. Action item - approve and formally adopt a successor labor agreement negotiated between the santaclara valley transportation authority (vta) and amalgamated transit union (atu)/local 265. (verbal report)this item will be presented by jane bailly.7:14 PMThank you, chair. this is to adopt the agreement. This item is now n the website and available.The collective bargaining agreement between vta nd atu 265 was set to expire in June 2022 and because of what has transpired over the last months, it's the idea of the early extension with limited negotiation on limited items to try to come to a onclusion of the collective bargaining agreement and create that piece for the next few years. In December of 221 and met several times and formally negotiated the terms of theextension of the agreement. This agreement that we are now recommending that you approve is the result of those negotiations. It includes wage increases and provides for appreciation and starting to talk about the starting pay for bus operators. It is a three year term from March 7, 2022 to March March 3rd, 2025.There will be wage adjustments in the second year and third year from 2% to 4% and paid to atu embers of $845 and we have included this thinking that vta employees were faced with multiple crisis over the last year 1/2. We have had the covid crisis that was ased by everybody in our community, but we had to continue to provide our service during that and many of our employees were with the public everyday. We had a large cyberattack that required many employees to change the way that they did things on a dime to continue to provide that service to the public and then of course we had the tragedy of May 26 at theguadalupe yard. The approach to that was this top tier of employees were very outward facing and in closeproximity and had to help with directly each one of these crisis. That put all the atu employees in that top tier. Approving this limited negotiation agreement at this time, we believe provides the labor piece that we were going to need during the period of cultural development that the board has stated its commitment to over the next 2-3 years as we recover from the tragedy in may, but also as we worked to improve the overall work of the vta as provided in public comment and chairman jones and others heard directly from our employees over the direct meetings over the last six months. We believe this will put stability and financial predictability in place to go forward and foster the increased collaboration and culture change that we are all seeking. To not approve the agreement will potentially pro track the agreement of the collectivebargaining agreement in september. We have the three year wage increases per year and a bonus. Atu has ratified this subject to approval and the vta is now required to approve the agreement. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:18 PMPublic comment.7:19 PMPublic speaker: blair beak man again. Thank you for the negotiations for all sides of the agreements. I guess it's my hope that we continue the ideas of -- good ideas that can be helpful from the atu and how we can function as a vta community. It will be interesting to hear that in the upcoming months. Thank you.To quickly offer, if you are 3 going to continue the partner of having code sections 3 in the meeting, I think it's a good idea to include public accessibility and if you try to announce maybe how long you expect the closed session to be whether it will be 0 or 60 minutes, will give some sort of indication nd will be reallyhelpful an help the public know when to return to the process. I know you don't always know, but it would be extremely helpful.7:20 PMI'm going to call on carrie one more time. That concludes public comment, chair.Thank you. we will now close public comment for this item. Are there any questions from my colleagues?I would make a motion to approve, cavez.Second, constantine.Elaine? roll call, please.Sorry, mayor.I just want to thank everybody or their hard work and their collaborative efforts. I want to emphasize. I think everybody came to the table in good faith. I certainly commend john for his tremendous leadership through some very very painful tragedies and certainly now as well. I want to thank carolyn as well for coming to the table immediately to really see how we can work out something that would really support our ambitions around ensuring that we have strong morale and that we are partners with our employees.I'm going to vote no and the reason i'm going to vote no because my shorter green would be more sensible. The reason why is that we are facing very severe operating gaps right now. If I can just ask our cfo, if he can put those up on the screen so we can take a look at them.7:21 PMI don't think I have the ability to put that up on the screen, I don't think. But, to your point --7:22 PMI will allow you to.Can you look at my screen?Yes. we are looking at operating dollars all the way up to $63. 7 million deficits over nine years. Those deficits are increasing every year. Is that a fair statement?7:23 PMYes, that's a fair statement but to keep in mind hen we are looking at projections, we haven't factored anything beyond 2023 for possible revenue generation. We use this tool to let ourselves address the issuesout there. What you are saying is correct and we have a number of structural issues coming up over the next years.Right, we have the benefit of a structural deficit and we have time precisely $120 million from federal dollars for the offset. A the projection, that money will run out in about four years. The challenge I have with this is I think we want to sit down collaboratively with our employees and try to figure out how we can use that one time money strategically in the ways that will perhaps generate revenue through higher ridership or other means or reduce costs through efficiencies of various kinds, but right now, if we commit to three years of this agreement, we are basically saying every one of those dollars is going to be filled upburning that operating deficit. This gives no flexibility to invest that one time money in a way that can strategically put us on a path to ensure to whoever john's successor might be, that they are not facing thevery stark realities of what might be a $36 million hole which means service cuts and lay offs which is obviously what we all want to avoid. So I am concerned about the duration of this agreement. Iunderstand that everybody negotiating gets paid under this board direction and everybody gave it their very best efforts. I'm going to decline to support this because i'm concerned about this and running this deficit with a one time money and our workers being among them and our riders and how we are going totackle this structural deficit that e have. I want to be a no vote, thank you.7:26 PMThank you. I don't see ny other hands raised.Clerk: chavez?Yes.Liccardo?No.Lee?Yes.Gilmore?Yes.Paul?Yes.Carrasco?Yes.Peralez?Yes.Jimenez?Yes.Bert?Yes.Constantine?Aye.Hendricks?Yes.Jones?Aye.Motion passed chair, thank you. Be --Thank you. next item is 8.2. the notes are in the agenda packet. We will now take public comments?7:27 PMI don't see any hands. yes, we do have one hand raised. Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: hi, blair beakman, can you label item 8. 1?Committee appointments.7:28 PMJust the importance, I think this has to do with the future of high-speed rail and alameda county. I think it's important to work with all of the county. And it's important to talk about the future and our overallprocess about it. It's for a better future. Thank you.Thank you.That now closes public comment for this item.Are there any questions from my colleagues?Motion to approve, chavez.7:29 PMSecond from glen.Second from hendricks.Roll call, please.Motion passed unanimously, thank you.Thank you.We are now on agenda item 8. 3. Silicon valley valley rapid transit program update.7:30 PMGood evening, Mr. Chair, happy new year to all of you. Page 2, please. Very quick. We finally reached the agreement and we executed it with signatures as you know we have been working on it for the last year.This group will now begin with that document. And this is moving as planned and a lot of activities going on there. We are ready now to go forward with the agreements with san jose and santa clara. Last month in december, we had a city council meeting fliin san jose and last night went over the design withparticipation and I believe it went really well with follow up. And fta notified us and the first run is January 7th. That's good. And the next contractors will be reviewing the oversight. The systems contract is ready.It will be on the street the first week of february. And i'm expecting to be before you with an award sometime in the summer. The time of the work, 60% of the entire program, we eceived the two propose before the holidays and this technique camp committee went through and they have finished. And now their valuation scoring committee will start Monday and their valuation will be presented you by vta, bart and san jose and cal trans. I will be going over that and sometime in mid-february, we are going to have a recommended -- and go over the contracts and April or May I will be coming for you for the award of thecontract. In santa clara we received three very good proposals and now the process is going hrough to do the short listing and afterwards, we will go over the process as you know. We are going to move on andhopefully next year we'll be before you for award of this contract. The station's contract that I briefed you last time, we need to see the contracts. We have plenty of time for the stations to be done because of the work that's going to be done by the contractor. That's our schedule. The framework. We have been using itfor the last two years. We are highlighting the window to execute the agreement. The first line to 2023.The only change in this schedule is, I took a footnote there. We added four months. The contractors asked us as part of the last contract to increase the length by four months. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:34 PMThank you, takis. we will now take public comment.Blair, you May begin speaking when you are ready. 3 public speaker: hi, blair beakman here. Thanks for this item. I know roland would want to speak on this item a lot. I have a disagreement for how to move forward on these budgeting issues. Thank you for actually, you offered some good ideas and what to expect and planning, and that's important. Thank you. I'm hopeful with what we can do with the planning ideas and with roland's opinion, it can be a year where we learn how to do better accounting practices.How are we going o be planning for the next three years. What are we talking openly about there and before we plan ourselves in 2023. I would like to learn how that can happen and what that will be. Thank you.7:35 PMEugene, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, once again, board members, eugene bradley, silicon valley transit users. One question I have regarding the timeline is what happens if the contractor runs into issues particularly tunnelling. I'm asking because I remember the one project, the contractor ran into inadvertently gas line and that resulted in over a year's delay with the allen rock bus line and caused vta to be late. My concern is what happens when someone does cause that in thecontracting. What happens if it goes up to do another sales tax and also what happens if it goes out of control. Thank you.7:37 PMThat concludes public comment.Thank you. are there questions from my colleagues?I don't see any hands raised. now I do.Thank you, sorry about that.I asked for a report back for the framework on local businesses. I was just wondering when is that coming to the board on this project?So, I can answer that. we are planning oncoming back next month. We'll probably bring something to anf.Maybe a longer discussion and then onto the board. We lost the head of our office in early november. Wewere planning oncoming in december. E were putting that presentation together. I did see a draft of some of the information. So we are planning to come to the board very soon.7:38 PMThank you. my request, i'm glad it's going to come to anf and that's wonderful. If we can bring it to the board next month to have a check about how we are doing and what we are going to to be doing would be really helpful.The bart project because it's such a large construction in value compared to the other work in the next two years potentially, it can e a driver for where our overall goals are set. So we are supposed to have that information as well. We can take a look at the whole program as well as to where we are with bart.7:39 PMThank you.Thank you.I don't see any other hands raised.This was an informational item. We don't need to vote. Last item.8. 4. Information item - receive an update from sb 129 joint labor management committee. (verbal report)The labor management continues to meet to identify the priorities stated in the board and the plan we got in october. And they are administering the $20 million grant for the final approval of our application by late this month, early february. That's when the funding will be available. So we're very excited about that. The resiliency center is open and we'll give a time frame on that and lastly the information is open and released on December 22nd. We are advertising this goes locally and nationwide. Please share with qualifying firms that they can go to our website for details. We have a preproposal conference next week and this is due January 31st. So we are moving along in that process. I'm happy to take any questions.7:41 PMThank you. we'll now take public comment.There are no hands raised, chair jones.All right. I will now close public comment on this item. Are there any questions from my colleagues? director chavez.Thank you, would appreciate getting this out to the board. I would love to circulate that within the county as well, I mean our staff to see if there is anybody they can recommend as well. Then the other question I have is, as it relates to the project overall, i'm presuming that we are going to be looking for pretty innovative approaches and there will be some flexibility for how to group gets an opportunity to assess what's coming before them. My hope is that they will be varied?7:42 PMYs, that's my hope and why we are advertising and asking the transit agencies across the country if they have ever had to do this type of work who they might recommend. I can't remember the qualifyingcriteria. The heaviest points that we are putting on this is the creative aspect of this and of course them being the subject matter expert in this field, but we really want some innovation and creativity and really some inclusivity when it comes to this work.Thank you. >Thank you for the idea to get it out to the board.7:43 PMI don't see any other hands. this is an information item. We don't need a motion.We'll go to other items. 9. Other items referral to administration I don't see any hands raised. No hands raised.We are now on for those who would like to make public comment on 9. 1.Chair, this is elaine. everybody did have a time to speak during the 30 minute timeframe.7:44 PMGreat.I will close item 9.3.We are now on the second portion of the closed session. Items 7. 1b and 7. 1c.Do we have any comment on these items?Public speaker: blair beakman, just trying to make this statement during public comment