I will ask member carr to read us the pledge of america and to the republic for which it stands, one nation,under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.5:34 PMThank you.We will now move to item 3 and 4. Item 9. 2a, our 2021 meeting schedule. Staff is also requesting that we hear agenda item 8. 7, statement on revenue and expense forecast be heard immediately after agenda item 8. 2. Let me see if there are any other changes or any questions from my colleagues. Seeing none, i'm going to ask for a motion and second. I have no public speakers. I will ask for a roll call vote.5:35 PMClerk: [roll call]Motion passes. thank you.Hank you. we are going to move to item 2. 1. 2. 1. Action item - conduct separate elections to determinethe board's chairperson and vice chairperson for calendar year 2021. And the board vice-chair elect 2. 1 and we will onduct separate elections for the chairperson and vice-chair person. For the new selection,vice-chair hendricks did submit for chair. We have the letter in the packet. May I have any other nomination for chair?5:37 PMI would like to nominate hendricks.Second.Any other nominations? we have a motion and second. If there are no other comments, I will go to public comment.I am going to keep this very short. I like Mr. Hendricks but I like guardino. Anyone with nothing more than this proxy does not belong on this board. Thank you.5:38 PMAll right. i'm going to comments and the vote.5:39 PM[roll call]Congratulations.Yay, glen. all right.Madam chair, can I just make one comment? I would like to say thank you to my colleagues.Thank you very much. with that, we will have the nominations for vice-chair chair. Right now the nomination is for member peralez.I would like to second.I will ask if there are any other nominations, if there are not, i'm going to ask for a closed nomination. I think we take a roll call vote on accepting the two nominees, right, evelyn?5:40 PMYes, that's correct.We'll take a roll call vote.I will second larry's motion.Thank you.A motion by carr, seconded by liccardo. [roll call]Motion passes.Thank you. motion passes.Thank you. and since we have more than one nominee, i'm going to take public comment before -- let me just say what the instructions are going to be because we have more than one, as your name gets called this next time, we are going to ask you to name the person that you are voting for. You need to get seven.Let's go to our public speakers. Public speaker: good evening, everyone, good evening, board. Thank you for this opportunity to speak. My name is john courtney for the transit union local 265 and also represent the california conference board as the recording and financial secretary. I just wanted to say that I endorse Mr. Peralez. he's out there with us on the street and he's got an open door policy for transit issues and homeless in the area. I would just like to say that I support rarely peralez. Thank you.5:43 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: please speak when you are ready. Public speaker: hello, i'm also a vta employee. I highly recommend raul peralez for vice-chair. I have met with him on the late night 2 and witness him and his team interviewing the riders. He made a very tough decision and he followed throughto interview everybody and see why the late night 22 was highly needed and also I recommend himcoming forward with the bart construction. His district will be highly impacted, so he'll be able to alleviate some of the residents and the business owners. So my recommendation is raul peralez.5:44 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: this is for raul peralez. He's really taken the time to understand theriders and taken transit himself. One really great memory that I have during the 2019 transit process when he was riding 22 overnight and having staff do surveys with him to understand the needs of thecommunity. This is a clear example of how compassionate he is towards the community? General. I think this is something we need right now. Thank you.5:45 PMThank you.Representative from the bay area. Public speaker: hi, this is addena levin. I don't know why zoom is doing this. I represent the area and I would like to support member peralez as an individual transit advocate.One thing that I really do appreciate is people who are on transit boards that are regular transit riders and can therefore speak when making their governance decisions based on that personal experience andhaving the ability to understand the other transit riders. I also respect director jones who is doing a diligent job who is a director, but extra points for those on the board who use transit. Thank you.5:46 PMClerk: next is michael. you May begin speaking when you are ready. I'm sorry, you have an older version of zoom. Please call the telephone number. Public speaker: i'm representing myself only. I do not own a car. This has been ignored for years. Public transit must stay on the road. Raul peralez has always been forsustainable and equitable transit for the community and understand the vta riders which I greatly appreciate. Please vote for Mr. Peralez.5:47 PMPublic speaker: hi, my name is scott of san jose and public transit transit,enthusiast. I would like to say i'm voting for Mr. Peralez. We need to have leaders of the board who understand the riders.5:48 PMThis wasThis is our last speaker. public speaker: thank you. I also support director peralez, not because he gives the members of the public two minutes, but every time I reach out to him and have discussions, he'slistened and he always comes to the correct conclusion. Now, when it comes to director zones jones. For every action there is a reaction. The reaction in this case is that you will have exactly one minute to involve this before the day the subpoenas start flying. Thank you. The board for action. If there are no more comments from my colleagues, when your name s called, say that you will be supporting this item.5:49 PMRaul, do you want to speak?I would love to speak for mysel myself. I I appreciate veryone speaking and appreciate you taking the time to do that. I think it's truly an honor to have submitted my name for consideration of vice-chair. After six years with the board, certainly I think I have been able to gain a lot of experience, but the fact of thenature is actually I have been riding this system before I could walk. I don't know or sure, but I would bet there haven't been too many in the role of vice-chair or chair that can say they have been riders since they have been born. It's been an experience I have had growing up here in the bay area and one that I bring into this role and one that I have continued in this ole while being a user of our services. As I submitted in the letter for your consideration through the last six years s a representative on this board, I have also gained a lot of experienced and I have been on the four of the five standing committee and chair of thediridon advisory policy board and the programming planning committee as a member of the program committee, a past member of governance and audit committee and past member of the safety and security and planning and safety operations committee and currently a member of the joint vta nd bart committee. As a member outside of vta, I have served on a number of capacities that bring me on thisboard and joint powers authority and past member of the caltrain board, through my role with the city of san jose I have served in the association of government and across the 100 cities around the bay areas and working jointly as well over the last couple years with the metropolitan transportation commission. I am currently on the san jose's transportation advisory commission as vice-chair and with the san jose task force and excited last year to be the recipient and getting an award as to my experience and I look forward to bringing this experience to you as vice-chair and would be happy to have your support. Thank you.5:52 PMThank you, raul. member jones?5:53 PMThank you, chair. first of all, I would like to say that I have the utmost respect for Mr. Peralez. he would be an amazing vice-chair member of the board. He's been a great leader. And he would be a great vice-chair.And I will stop there. We are facing unprecedented times and we are going to have to make tough decisions as a board and those tough decisions are going to have to involve tradeoffs and in thosetradeoffs, we are going to have to have leaders who are working and collaborating with officials throughout the region. If you look at my track record and involvement and all the members of this board, probably in some form or fashion, I have worked with you. You know my track record, you know my ability tocollaborate, you know my ability to think not just for the interest of san jose, but to also think regionally. I have had many discussions and worked with projects with the board enhancement committee or myinvolvement with the city's association and leadership on the stpo, I can just run down the list of all of myinvolvement of my leadership abilities and how I have been able to work with my elected officials and my colleagues to move forward with a vision to what we want to accomplish and also to address issues as theyarise. We are going to discuss later in this meeting a pretty contentious issue that has come up in terms of measure b and one of the reasons why that issue is contentious right now is there are parts of our county, parts of our community that have a lack of trust in terms of how these decisions are being made. Whoever we have in this position, we need to have someone who has the ability and a proven track record to orkwith all individuals, try to come up with a common vision, create a level of trust and collaboration so that we can move forward and accomplish the goals of this organization. I will say again, that my colleague member peralez has these capablities but I have proven with over 30 years of experience leading teams and collaboration on some pretty big things. I want to take that to the ta leadership and move thisorganization forward. So i'm asking for your support in your vote. Thank you.5:56 PMThank you. and I do want to just thank both of you and acknowledge that both of you have a great deal tooffer. Thank you for that. So i'm going ask he clerk to call vote but do it via roll call. Thank you.Clerk: we have chappie jones and raul peralez running for vice-chair. I will start with carr.5:57 PMCarr? jones.Peralez.Jones.Jones,Liccardo? jones. yes.Mcallister? chappie jones.Nu?ez? chappie jones.Peralez? peralez.Rennie? peralez.Hendricks?I want to say that whoever it is I want to be able to work closely and collaboratively with. Chappie.Chavez? peralez.Chappie jones got 7 votes and member peralez got 5 votes. So it's chappie jones.5:58 PMThank you. I want to say, we were an embarrassment of riches. Thank you for that.I didn't get added in my comments but I also wanted to echo to chappie, I think he will do a great job as vice-chair. And in fact, many nights when I take public transportation and he knows and it's cold and Idon't want to go back on the train, he is my ride home and he will continue to be as we get back into the -- out of this pandemic and onto the meeting.Thank you very much.All right. congratulations to you, chappie, and I look forward to working with you in your new capacity.Hank you, appreciate it.Item 3.1. 3. Awards and commendation staff for being the front line workers here at vta, keeping the rest of the staff safe from contamination. To thank all members who come in everyday to provide this service to the public. To the operators and managers at our operating division, I really want to say a very sincere thank you.5:59 PMYou're welcome.Who said that? there you are, gregory. Thank you.For our operators, our dispatchers, supervisors and managers. I want to thank you for your service. And really to making sure that all of our strike that. -- essential workers. And I want to speak to the maintenance team, janitors and supervisors and managers who always spring into action and making sure that riders and employees are safe. They clean and sanitize the busses, light rail and stations. I want to thank i. T. Staff team who make sure everything is functioning and working. And would like to thank all thestaff from operations and security to administrative staff. I can't emphasize enough how truly grateful each of us are for your services, sacrifices and your contribution. I do want to say to my colleagues, if you want to get off mute, this is the time to say thank you, thank you, thank you. [ applause ]6:01 PMNext is item 3. 2. Information item - adopt a retirement commendation recognizing heidi samuels, deputy director, bus transit operations, for 34 years of service; gregory farias, coach operator, for 30 years of service and gregory heidi is on the teleconference with us. Thank you for serving us for 34 years. [ applause ] thank you. Now of service; gregory farias, coach operator, for 30 years of service and gregorywilliams, coach operator, for 25 years of service. We get to thank you for 30 years of public service. Thank you.6:02 PMNext, gregory williams, coach operator demonstrated passion in his work and commitment to safety and commitment to safe driving thereby also earning the 1 million operators service award. He serves in a respectful and courteous manner. Gregey is joining us and we want to thank him for 25 years of publicservice. Thank you and thanks for being with us. Thank you to all of our retirees and your dedicated service. Congratulations to our retirees. I want to say that i'm really grateful to all of you. I hope you enjoy your retirement. I'm going to item resolutions of appreciation for outgoing vta board members. Second?6:03 PMSo moved. this is glen.6:04 PMA motion from member hendricks and second from liccardo. So we are doing a roll call vote to adopt all theresolutions of appreciation before I read them. Thank you.6:05 PMClerk: [roll call] the motion passed. Thank you.Thank you. I know people get all shy when i'm reading tis. I'm going start with member bruins. Whereas jeannie bruins was a member of the vta board of directors and took on a number of leadership roles throughout her seven years on the board including her service and board chairperson in 2017. Whereasjeannie bruin was also a member of the many vta boards and committees and boards such as the peninsula joint powers authority and the metropolitan transportation commission, and whereas jeannie bruins industrious and on the transportation commission. Now, therefore be it resolved, we express our sincerest appreciation to jeannie bruin for her commitment to public transportation. I stayed to the script.Thank you.6:06 PMI will now turn to larry carr. Whereas larry carr has served on many committees for vta and served in a role of leadership for a number of years and whereas he worked for the the counties of government toreduce congestion and improve safety for travel as a member of the mobility partnership. Now, therefore be it resolved vta board of directors hereby commends you for your experience and dedication for valleytransportation authority in santa clara county. Adopted by all of us today. [ applause ] thank you, larry.6:07 PMThank you.He honorable david cortese, whereas he has served in the county as a region including 19 years as a member of the vta board. 12 years in the county of santa clara board of supervisors and whereas he served in the county's transit community and advocating for the advancement of the connector project andwhereas the promotion for the bay area priority to silicon valley, phase 1 and phase 2 and the advancement of diridon station and the region wide vote and votes in this town and now now, therefore be it resolved, that santa clara county valley transportation authority appreciate your work. Thank yu, dave, for all of your amazing leadership and service.6:08 PMThank you. honorable member diep, who has been part of the silicon valley and role as a member of thesilicon valley rapid transit court order and -- board and rapid transit advisory board and now, therefore be it resolved that alley transportation authority board of directors express our appreciation for your commitment.6:09 PMThank you so much and thank you to the board, supervisor chavez and especially the staff for personalizing the certificates. I quite appreciate that. It's sentimental. Thank you.Thank you.Honorable liz who is completing her tenure on the palo alto vta board of directors and whereas having previously service as a member of 2005-2009 and chair of board and whereas liz kniss has been a member for six years of service in 2014 and whereas lisa kniss is dedicated to he residents of palo alto and residents of santa clara county and now, therefore be it resolved the valley transportation authorityappreciate your service adopted by all of us today. Yay, liz. I'm so glad you are here. And then we have john mcallister. You are right. Almost everyone is leaving this board. Just hang on. Whereas john mcallister is completing his time on the board of directors of vta. And he worked on the light rail transit and the orange line which connects and other enhance transit priority to the reliability of orange line to san jose.Whereas john mcallister led our policy board to a transit project and guided to improve vta's governance.Now, therefore be it resolved vta board of directors express its sincere xpression for john mcallister for his service. He wins best background and ugly sweater. I didn't know it was a competition. Otherwise I wouldhave challenged you.6:12 PMHonorable board member miller. Whereas howard miller expressed his interest in transportation investment and brought detail and robust celebration with the policy advisory committee where he served as chairperson three times. Whereas honorable miller was a transit advocate and provided guidelines for ransit improvement and provided commuters mobility options. Now, therefore be it resolved that the vta board of directors express appreciation to howard miller for his exemplary contribution to valleytransportation authority. Thank you.The honorable bob nu?ez whereas he is completing his tenure as the board of directors. A champion on thefirst day of the bart extension and milpitas and silicon valley and whereas his commitment to valley transportation authority and collaboration with silicon valley. Now, therefore be it resolved the valleytransportation authority board of directors express its sincere appreciation to bob nu? Ez for his contribution to santa clara county adopted today. Thank you, bob. Honorable teresa o'neill. Whereas teresa o'neill began her leadership on the role and whereas teresa o'neill for many years guided vta and whereasteresa o'neill worked in the broader area of transportation network and vta bart working group. Now, therefore be it resolved vta board of directors hereby commend and expresses it's sincerist appreciation toteresa o'neill as a member of public transportation adopted by all of us today.6:14 PMThank you very much. thank you. It's been a pleasure. I wanted to see if any of my colleagues who are eaving would like to say a word. Your contribution was tremendous for each and every one of you. John?I will start off. thank you, everyone, for allowing me to work with such a great group of people. It's been an honor and privilege to work on the vta board. I think transportation is such a huge component of qualityof life and equity to all neighbors and people in the region. It can connect families, jobs, it can provide, reduce greenhouse gasses. As I leave, i'm proud that I was able to bring certain items for discussion because this organization is so important in what it does. And the people are great. The staff is tremendous and as I said once before, they are like a race horse ready to get out of the gate. It's upon the board to make sure they are dedicated and thoughtful and think regional as the chair of the board enhancement of the committee, that was one of the everybody involved and firing on all cylinders because this agency can do so much good for so many people that there is tremendous opportunities. I wanted to thank nuria and her staff. She was very welcoming to me and listened to me and I appreciate her and her guidance, and all the other opportunities that she allowed me to attend various conferences which I highly recommend that everybody does to get out of your silo to see what the world is doing out there because technology is moving fast. And you guys as I said, chappie said and glen with say that next year is going to be one hellacious year. And staff will be able to get those going, if not, the nine of us will come back and beat the heck out of you. Thank you, it's been a pleasure. I will miss you all. Happy holidays and be safe.Member o'neill?6:17 PM# -- jeannie bruin.I want to say thank you for allowing me to be involved. I think i'm going to suffer from withdrawal. It's been a really great ride. I want to thank all of my colleagues current and past from being on the board. Ithink we've all worked pretty well together and always tried to listen to everyone's point of view. I appreciate that. Member chavez, you should kind -- you are kind of a rock in this and mayor liccardo, thank you for welcoming me. And to the staff, we have an impressive staff from vta to our line workers all the way up to our general manager, and all of you have been wonderful to me and given me the opportunity to spend time with you and I have a lot of fond memories of a lot of you. Last, I want to thank all of our constituents. We have a lot of people that come out and make their voices heard here at vta and I have valued in listening to your perspectives. Thank you, I will miss you all.6:19 PMLiz?I have been on the vta board again and many itches will come again. Many issues that are coming and will be coming. She was testing her applause. Surprise. So, for the first time by the way, in eight years, there is going to be a vta member from palo alto. Her name allison coremak. Please get to know her and spend time with her. This committee is really important, it really is a consuming job. I know that it will be really interesting to have someone from as far north as you can get and chappie, you are not as as far as you can get. Close but not that far. I would like to say congratulations to glen and chappie. You are going to drive vta forward. Thanks and thanks for the conversation and the background on it. And see you around the block. As jeannie said, we'll have o pull the plug for a while and always where are we going to go even if we do pull the plug, right? I think we are stuck for a while. Thanks to all of you. I will be here for the rest of the night but for the last time. Thanks.6:21 PMThanks, cindy. i'm going to stay in the theme of thank yous. Being on this board has been a wonderful opportunity to learn from such an impressive group of colleagues from across great backgrounds and across the entire county. I have really enjoyed that part of this role. I want to thank you all for placing a value on regionalism and a value for all parts of the county and protecting services to areas like south county and joining me in championing that. I really appreciate the work that everyone did with that. I can't say enough about the professional staff team of vta. And as board members we serve in lots of different capacities and this staff team is always there to support us to help us along to right -- us when we areheading in the wrong direction. Thank you for the support that you have given us. Never forget the great opportunity that you have with vta for the on going board members and new board members and for our professional staff. You get a chance to prove yourself everyday and don't forget you are providing a service for peoples lives and it touches people's lives everyday and you matter. Thank you for your commitment to this service and keep proving to the world and our county, the great value that vta brings to our lives. Ihave enjoyed my service learning about the issues and spending time with each of you. Thank you very much.6:23 PMThank you, larry. dave?Thank you very much. a lot of us, I will be brief, but let me just say thank you very much. Let me just say on the sentimental side, one of our colleagues used that word and also to date myself a little bit, some of you, like you cindy, you have been in my office where there is a picture of me at 13 years old with an our delegate litigation signing legislation to create what was contra costa county district. This has been a long time, not just 19 years that I have served on the vta that I have been hanging around transit andtransportation, public transportation here in santa clara county. Cindy, you and I remember running down the stairs, the hardwood stairs from the sixth floor at the old city hall to go to vta committee meetings because it used to be held at the old city hall in the city of san jose. Again, iodate myself but those are memories. Who would have hought at my home in my office, the bart to silicon valley extension programthat the organization would get there, the board would get there and that all this would happen. That's due to the fact that it's a serious organization, it always has been and I have always felt that my colleaguesthroughout the years on vta, have been very serious eople and as we know, there is some decorum and some seriousness that you see in the public sections, but you eally learn about how much people do theirhomework and how serious and how fierce they are when we get into the closed session whichunfortunately the public doesn't always get to know about. I really want to say one last thing and that is there is a new activism that I have seen whether it's monica melon or some of the folks that have beenaround for a while, eugene bradley, Mr. Lebron. you know, it bothered me on my first few years at the chambers full of activist but not at the vta and now i'm seeing this type of activism and I want to say tokeep it up. It makes a difference, thank you.6:26 PMThank you, dave.Teresa, you get the last word.Thank you. it's been a real pleasure and honor to serve with my board colleagues and work with the staff and to see how seriously everybody takes this endeavor because the last january, who knew that was going to be one of our last public meetings and how you trample on dreams, because transportation is what people need for their lives and it's very serious and what we use to get around. And santa clara hasthe most challenging opportunities to make that work. I want to thank the staff and the community members that our dreams for transportation will all come true. Take care.6:27 PMThank you, teresa. our staff has made a request and that is that they would like us to, for all the board to turn on their cameras, and if we can get the board members to turn on their camera and the reason is that they would like to take a picture of all the board members together and then we'll do one with staff. So, if we can get, for folks to feel comfortable, I know we weren't all expecting. Sorry, I saw a few people.6:28 PM[ laughter ]Can we put n ur mask?We are going to stay as still as we can. And raul, i'm going to have you lean in a bit.Rul, you are scaring me.6:29 PMOkay. real quick. everybody stay still. Raul?What is that?I'm going to count. 123. can we do one with staff. Including you, elaine. You have the camera? Ready,everybody. Don't make me shame people. Okay. Are you ready?Elaine?Don't have a camera on my pc, sorry.Okay. i'm getting everyone on. 123.And i'm actually going to do two shots. So one more.All right.6:30 PM123.All rght. thank you, everybody. One last round f applause. There you go. Wild applause. I do want to say to our retirees, that is for you too. We are now going to public comment. For this item, you are limited to one minute. We can't take actions on issues that are not on the agenda. If you ike to speak to an item on the agenda, I would encourage you to do it at one time. If you do it now, we cannot let you speak on thatitem. I will ask the clerk to begin calling public comment.6:31 PMThank you. roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. What just happened is an exemplary situation. And for those that disappeared, quite frankly this reminded me of myfour years ago when I was to present the election results coming in. Moving on to the next item I want to talk to you about. You May have heard by now that I have requested the resignation of rog. For simply lying to the board at the last board meeting. What that lie was about the true cost about phase 1 and theresulting impact of vta's financial stability. I May not have time to explain to you what happened back inoctober, but I certainly will tomorrow at 1:00 p. M. . Thank you.6:32 PMClerk: next is cole.6:33 PMPublic speaker: okay, thank you. Silicon valley has a long communication of ideas. In this age of equity can we imagine the future of technology and industrial complex to be an important subject matter for how to choose future advertising logos and transit kiosk. Overall, i'm not that crazy about this market logo. If youhave budget ideas and options, I hope this can be kept to a minimum as possible and amenities be established. Thank you. Public speaker: thank you cole. I have to jump to another meeting. I want to make brief note on 8. 8 and 9. 1. We need as much service as we can. We have been cutting for years and as a finance guy, I nderstand budgeting. The same goes for measure b. Thank you for this evening and all that you are doing. Thank you.6:34 PMThank you. eugene. Public speaker: good evening, members of the board. This is eugene bradley. I started doing this public transit advocacy back in 2000. Any who remember august 7, 2000 when the board ofsupervisors decided to put measure a on the ballot and that's why I started with my public advocacy. There will be more of us. I guarantee that to you. Any other comments I will leave to the appropriate actionitems. Thank you.6:35 PMMonica, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: I missed the previous item. I want to be sure to thank all the board members that have leaving. It's been such a strong group of boardmembers. It's been amazing watching you grow over these past few years. I really learned a lot from you and you helped me grow as an advocate and as a person and you really changed my life. Thank you for listening to my public comment and for listening and for caring. We are going to lose a lot of knowledge. I hope that you will consider staying engaged and I wish you the best of luck in whatever you are doing next. We are moving next to item 5, we have no public hearings. We are going to the committee recorports. Marty, you are on mute. 6. Committee reports (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report)(schulter) 6. 2. Policy advisory committee (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (constantine)6:36 PMGood evening, members of the board. Congratulations to the members who are retiring from the board. I have a brief report tonight. We considered the vta bus roll out plan which is consent item agenda 7. 7 on your agenda. The committee passed and amended the recommendation that encouraged the target of 2035 instead of the 2040 goal of operating at 100% zero emissions but fleet. The citizens watch dog committee did not have any regular agenda items, but I do want to bring to your attention the fact that our committee will have three vacancies out of the 13 member group at the end of December with the resignation of matt. Congratulations to matt for his position for serving incoming council member.Additionally, we have no representatives from labor and with matt's departure, this is the first time of my tenure over 15 years that no one will be representing silicon valley leadership. All this to say, we need the board's help to get the word out about our vacancies. Thank you. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:37 PMThanks, marty and thank you for reminding us of the appointment. I will follow up with staff.6:38 PMThank you for serving as chair.Thank you. all right. Chairpersons' report. (verbal report) chairpersons' report. (verbal report)Thank you. my name is richard constantine. Members of the pac took unprecedented action and the reason is because this is an information item only. We voted to not receive the report n the 2016 measure b ten year expenditure outlook following significant committee discussion that focused on the concerns of the bart phase 2 project of diverting funds from local streets and roads. Members of the committee and publicadvocated or funding for this category and was the highest priority category on the measure b ballot measure for voting restrictions. We also voted to serve on the nomination to serve as chairperson and vice-chair person and adopted he plan as vta adoption of the plan and to the bus roll ut to comply with the resource board innovative clean transit regulations. Mayor voted against out of concerns for the increased cost of the new bus technology. We also received information on the evaluation of the downtown light rail speed project for July through September 2020. Our next meeting will be December 10th. I wanted to takea quick time to thank all the outgoing members for their service to the cmmunity. Thank you all. If there is any questions, I will be happy to answer them.6:40 PMThank you, rich. i'm going to take public comment after we get all of these reports. I will go to the standing chair committee person. The governance audit committee met arlier today which is why we were late. This is for the trust fund amending the internal work plan and also discussed some governance work issues and the other standing committees, their reports are available online. I would like to go to item 6. 4which is the policy advisory board chairperson's report. And this is reports from the sr 85 corridor and the diridon station is lso in the packet.6:41 PMI just wanted to tell them a little story about 2016 rod and I were sitting in the conference of mayor's in ashington d. C. Talking about congestion on s 85 and said what can we do about it and measure b came along and we said, let's see what we can do as part of the funding. The rest of the story came aboutOctober 1st when the board unanimously voted to continue the transit development lane on sr 85. The story basically is, if people are dedicated and passionate and committed, things can get done. It doesn't take a lot but there is a willingness among the vta board and the community that if something is needed, we'll back it up. We had our last meeting for this year and it was just a summary of all the activities goingforward and gave us a better sense of the one year or two year projects going forward. It's great, we are thrilled that it's going forward and funded and I ant to thank all of my colleagues on the vta board forvoting for it and the chair and the vice-chair taking their regional hats and I know this will be a very successful project. It's been a pleasure to be the chair of this committee. So I have gone long enough. Iwill shut up. Thank you for the activities and the commitment and the resolution that we got this going. 36:43 PMJohn, that's for all of your amazing work. You are right, that was tenacious. That is tenacity in action. With that, I will take public comment. Public speaker: hi, to speak on what to do with bart funding for next yar.That item s coming up under 9. 1. Blair.Oh, okay. then I will speak on a different item on similar issues talked about on budget issues talked about at most of the meetings.Go ahead.Thank you.If you can start the timer over, that would be great. Thank you for what you are trying to work out with your budget plans, transit service and the community at this time. I feel there has been a collectivcollective sigh of relief and what maybe more positive days coming to santa clara county. And with the very serious health issues at this time to understand the funding at the federal mechanism that will beincredibly important for the next few years and vta is working to describe this from the public. From this help and I hope from the following months that you will better explain to the public what it is possible to work with at this time. I feel it's better to talk about this better and than to create misunderstandings.Immediate alameda county seems to take a better approach on this.6:45 PMAll right. 'm going to the consent calendar. Items 7. 1 through 7. 13. To my colleagues, if anyone wants to recuse themselves from any item?6:46 PMI was going to recuse myself from 7. 5 and 7. 1.I need a motion and second to move the consent calendar.I move the consent calendar.Second.Then we'll go to public comment.Roland? public speaker: thank you, madam chair. What I would like to do is echo is that gna is speaking to the content. On phase 1, as of June 7th, the cost is $3. 6 billion, not 2. 4. This includes $1. 7 billion ofmeasure a, not 1. 1. So why the difference? The difference is between the $2. 4 billion and the extra $1 billion which is not under any kind of supervision with the vta and board of directors. The last comment I would like to make is that table 28, actually shows $5. 2 billion in capital assets including caltrain light rail there is absolutely no sign to the half billion dollars. Public speaker: thank you. This is to the cameras that are going on the buses. I hope you are talking about the new improved technologies policies as well and have those policies explain to the public what those cameras are doing. That will be really wonderful. You have great policy work. I hope you continue it. To conclude, an item about a joint powers boards that the vta is a part of. I figured it would be a time to report to yourselves that -- I have 15 seconds. The work in fremont, they are developing a second train station for one of their areas that reqquestions the idea ofhigh-speed rail. They are working on those things. Thank you.6:49 PMNext is telephone number, 5842. You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: public speaker: n regards to item 8. 3. It's been working very well for the last few years and provided stability for the program. The board agenda item before you doesn't show the cost. We are the largest provider of ada certification nationwide. You know, basically, our cost to our current providers is $800,000 cheaper over the term of the contract. With one month of transition issues, we feel we would like to have staff takeanother look at this if possible and we have an online model that we can transition to. If not, we would like to thank staff and the board for having us work with vta over the last three years. Thank you very much.6:50 PMThank you. we have a motion and second on the floor. Any discussion on the motion, seeing none,Roll call, please.6:51 PMClerk: this is for items on the consent agenda with member liccardo recusing 7. 4 and 7. 5. [roll call]motion passes unanimously. Thank you.Thank you very much. i'm going to item 7. 3. Sam, you pulled that. Let's hear that and then we'll go to the regular agenda.Thank you. I understand this is only a 5% increase on an hourly basis. Has vta looked at how this compares to the ridership thresholds similar to what we did for example with the express buses about a year ago we were discussing about the sources to support them. Has that analysis been taken.6:52 PMMadam chair, if I may. I don't have that answer, but I would like to ask Mr. Burt from the regional transportation commission if he can reckon # -- recollect -- on that information.Thank you, for the commuter on the east rail, there are eight shuttles that provide transportation for various employment agencies and they have under contract and utilized with partners as well as funded by the bay area quality management district. So what these shuttles do is they provide an opportunity forcommuters to basically get to their various work sites. To answer your question on the statistics to comparing it to the express shuttles, I will need to refer to staff on those items to get more -- analytics for you. These are 33 passenger vehicles, precovid, of course and they were very full and we utilized various modes for transit and commuters.6:54 PMThank you. it's still very high.It sounds anecdotally it would appear higher in terms of the system.Yes.I would like to make a motion to approve.Scond.We have a motion and second. we have one public comment. Public speaker: good evening, again. This is john, local 265, for what the ayor said about the context of the amount of riders on the shuttle, you cantake apart the 33 line and 43 people is nothing, let's be guys to go out to the el paseo - yard. Those shuttles are a disgrace. I bet they don't meet the afety design. These were people that were subsidizing and if you continue to subsidize and push it out the door which sounds like that's what the mayor wants to do, this is what you get, you get a product that is terrible. Whether there is 33 people in the shuttle or not, it should be us pulling them around. If I was president when this stuff got out. We wouldn't have it. Thank you.6:55 PMThanks, john. all right. Sam?Just to clarify. i'm not suggesting that we outsource the lines. In fact what we are looking to do with the express lines and we have done is encourage employers to contribute to help support it. That's what I want to see if this is one of those lines where we are asking for employer contribution would be helpful. I know e are relying on grant money but I know we'll be facing tough decisions ahead.6:56 PMThank you. we have a motion and second. Any further discussion? All right. I'm going to ask for a roll call vote.This is for item 7.3. motion by liccardo and hendricks. [roll call]Motion passes.Thank you very much. we are going to move now to item 8. 2. As a reminder to my colleagues. T's about 7:00. And i'm saying this more to make sure that we are going to need to make sure we have a quorumfor closed session. We have a few items there. So what we have before us is we are going to take item 8. 1 and hear 8. 2 and then 8. 7, we are going to hear those together and then we'll go to item 8. 3 and 8. 4 and go down that line. If I can go to item 8. 1. 8. 1. Information item - receive silicon valley rapid transit(svrt) program update.6:57 PMMadam chair, to update you, as you know we have been working with fta and the contractor for fta and we were advancing our design and contract documents. We reached a master agreement with the city of san jose and santa clara county and I want to thank the staff for the cities and the agencies working with us to come to this point and i'm pleased to tell you that fta has approved our application. You May recall that by now from the moment we pushed the button, they have 120 days to approve our funding. Indeed this is good news for vta and what we are trying to do here. The plan now in the next few days, we'll have more questions from fta to respond to. I wanted to talk with the city. I talked with all of them yesterday and today to develop a schedule together because we need to have below a master agreement and there aredifferent agreements and fta is asking for more agreements. I'm optimistic that next week some time that they will adopt the application. Page 3, as you May recall, that on November 17, '18, 19, we had the one on one with the teams that they proposed as part of their request for information. To do the tunnel for us.We got seven strong teams, some 35 contractors, we learned a lot by talking to them and now we areusing this time to update our documents and have a better contract as a whole. Tomorrow we are receiving the systems contractor. That's all I have for today. On page 4, I maintained our framework schedule and you see the three marks. We are progressing as we planned. Thank you. Any questions?7:00 PMThank you, takis. i'm taking over the chair. Are there any questions from my colleagues? If not, eye one speaker from the public. If we can we do to that, staff.Thank you, roland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you so much for the super segue. What I would like to talk to you about what happened with vta back n October when they discovered that after the $22 million that you have for phase 2, you actually had $168. 8 million that was for phase 1. So what did you do? Well, you slide the reviews and borrowed $17 million and it's now 17. 6 4 an where did the money go? t was very simple. It was transmitted directly to the phase 1 dumpster file that no one has oversight on. Right now, the cost that you have never mentioned to anybody of phase 1 a nobody knows about is now up to $1. 2 billion. It was $600 million of measure a before.7:02 PMThat's all the speakers we have.Thank you. director liccardo?I want to say thank yu, takis and congratulations. Getting this done is a very congratulations and I know we've got some challenges with the numbers ahead, but this is important. Thank you.I'm sure the general manager is looking to the point when she can say she's done with that particular piece. If there are no other comments from anyone on 8. 1. I think that was an information only and we don't need to do anything. I'm moving on to 8. 2. This is to 8. 2. Action item - review and accept the fiscal year 2021 statement of revenues and expenses for the period ending September 30, 2020.7:03 PMThank you, Mr. Chair. this is Mr. Wong.Thank you vice-chair hendricks. Good evening, this item represents the end quarter that ended September 2020. The memorandum is in your packet to prepare the financial meeting of November 19th and receivedthe information from the local tax revenue and this includes the updated numbers. For the total revenue for the 1st quarter of this fiscal year, it was 11. 7 lower than budget which $6. 5 million comes from transitfares. As you know vta did not collect fares in July and the pandemic led to low ridership. And taxpayers of $4. 3 million which the 1976 half cents and the operational assistance of $8 million. Moving to operating expenses. $8. 4 million of favorable variance due to staff vacancies. There are no significant variances of materials and supplies and fuel and set by variance for reimbursements. For the other expenses andtransfers line, pairatransit and the line and cares funding is not included. Any net operating values at the end of this fiscal year will be breached by such funding available. In conclusion, the 1st quarter operating balance before cares act funding is included is totaling $7 million with total revenues $1 million and thisconcludes my presentation. I'm happy to answer questions.7:05 PMI think this is where we are taking also item 8. 7 to do it together, is that correct?7:06 PMThat's correct.Okay, let's go ahead and do 8. 7. 8. 7 information item - review fiscal year 2021 statement of revenue andexpenses forecast. (verbal report)This is an information item for staff forecast for fiscal year 2021, revenues and expenses. I will just dive into it. With more information on revenues. Transit and paratransit fares, staff is projecting a balance in the $80. 7 million this measure before applying cares act funding to bridge the operating balance. For example, if the operating balance for this fiscal year turnout to be $73. 5 million, the same dollar amount will be applied to bridge that gap. Approximately $72. 6 million of cares act funding will remain availablefor future use. Balances will remain intact in that example. These preliminary projections are etter than the ones that was presented to the board in august of this year. Much of the improvement comes rom betterresults in recent quarters of local tax revenues that initially projected. However, I want to point out that in the last two quarters, i'm talking about April through June which was the last quarter of the last fiscal year and the first quarter of this fiscal year, July through september, local sales tax revenues were 17. 7% and 7% lower than budget respectfully. With recent covid stay-at-home orders on the horizon, those could have a short-term impact on our local sales tax revenues. Staff is working closely with different institutions such as ucla to update the projections and will incorporate them into future projections and presentations.So quickly I want to go over the fare revenue forecast. That is based on actual fares collected since august 1st. I also want to point out that smart pass contracts that we have with institutions has been extended for four months for the expiration date originally scheduled December 31st of this year to April 30th of next year. Due to no fares being collected earlier this year. Staff have reached ut to many of these institutions and we are anticipating that there will be significant reduction of enrollment in those contracts. Of so, that will put some pressure on our fare revenues as we move forward for not only the remainder of fiscal year 2021, but also in subsequent fiscal years as well. Moving on to total expenses, that forecast figure at $81.6 million is based on the most recent quarter that I ust presented, and recent trends and the margin occurred that will be presented later tonight. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:10 PMOkay, let's go to public comment.Mr. Roland?Public speaker: thank you. Thank you for haring that report. This is why i'm asking or his resignation. This is false. In the small print, you could see there is the small print for thend- September and October meeting. So he absolutely lied. I will leave it at that. Let me just say, when you look at these numbers when you are in the case until the end of 2021. Thank you.7:11 PMThank you,Next speaker, please. public speaker: hi. Thank you. It was reported in the last item that the cares act can give matching funds. And so what you are reporting, there can be a matching fund situation. So at least you reported that. Thank you very much. I think hat roland is describing is kind of my own feeling that you are running to talk about these budget issues to the public more and it's been difficult. I just hope that youcan keep learning how to do that. I think here is a small business plan coming up that is going to talk about vta issues. Maybe that can be of help in how to connect with the public and just create a bettertransparency with yourself and work with us to help us in the end, thank you.7:12 PMThank you. that was the last of our public speakers. I will close the public speaker section. Do any of my colleagues have questions or thoughts they would like to share? Going once, going twice. I would to # --like to remind my colleagues that this is an action item and we need a motion. Mayor liccardo?7:13 PMI would like to make the motion and say thank you to staff and the fact that we are not in a much deeper hole. I know we need tightening and I would like to thank the staff for getting us to this point. I move.Who was the second? larry? okay. Great. With that, could we have a vote, please.7:14 PMClerk: this is for item 8.2, motion by liccardo, seconded by carr. [roll call]Thank you. motion passes unanimously.Thank you. that's really incredible staff work. I want to confirm with the staff that we are now moving to item 8. 4.Yes, madam chair.I want to make sure. all right. This item 8. 4 action item - authorize the general manager to enter into anexclusive negotiations agreement (ena) with bayview development group and civil & building north america, inc. For a term of twelve (12) months with a six (6) month extension for negotiation of theproposed terms and conditions of a lease option agreement (loa) for a transit-oriented developmentproject at the curtner property. If agreement cannot be reached with bayview development group7:15 PMI'm going to turn to member ron.I have to recuse myself.Thank you.I'm going to recuse myself same as supervisor cortese.I would like to recuse myself on the same basis.All right. I will now turn it to ron. Staff is going to make a presentation and then what i'm going to allow for is one person from any of the development folks who applied for this rfp for two minutes to speak ndthen to the public for one minute each.Thank you, madam chair. also joining me for this presentation is the project manager for the site. So this is an item that was originally scheduled for the September meeting. It's now in this meeting. In the meantime it has been proprietorary discussion. The first is we have had a chance to review the federaltransit administration and we are following the fta requirements and their interpretation that inflection is to maximize the benefits for what we asked for in the rfp. The item before the board tonight is an action item.It's for the results and evaluation and we are asking for the board to approve this. Any board that would receive this as a project and the community and this is a much bigger project. I also want to highlight what we are doing tonight is the start of the process. The purpose of exclusive negotiations agreements is not to approve a project, but to start a process working ith the community and city as well as vta to identify how to evolve and refine the best possible project to be effective and to also be approved. Ultimately whatevercomes out of this comes out of the board for agreement. So in the packet, you will see more detail. You will see a full evaluation of the report and also the engagement. I want to highlight a couple of thoseitems. The first is a letter received from the san jose office of economic development and identified for us in the general plan for staff's recommendation is most consistent with the city's general plan and reflecting the site. You will see letters from the two development teams as well as providing information on thebackground. I do want to note that the other day we received a letter to revise the proposal and review the material. With the rfp process, that is information by the deadline and the interviews to be asked and that is so we can have a air and open competition as required by the fta and to include that information and that is the reason we can consider the required work. So there has been a discussion about this and theblue bars are the margins and we have 11 hundred housing units in our pipeline with 400 -- I also want to point out that the partnership that you are creating with the county per the mou approved by the board isfocused on four vta sites. In the near term we will increase the pipeline for over 1,000 units. In terms of housing, there is a tremendous need but vta has set the stage for a large amount of housing in the near future. With respect to the site, this is the second site by the developer. When we put out an rfp, we asked for projects that will increase transit ridership and what is consistent with the general plan and by san jose and create affordable housing in the project, provides access improvements and create workingopportunities. I would like to now go to joslyn to walk over to this report.7:20 PMThank you, ron. ron received three great proposals from various teams. The first proposal that came in was from bayview development group. You might be familiar with the project across from san jose's city hall. It's the -- 240,000 square foot office and the affordable units. In addition they also proposed retail and daycare center. The second came from republic urban who is also a developer and we are working with on todd projects they proposed a mixed income projects as well as retail and daycare center. The final proposal came in from bay west who is another local developer working on the bascom station project in the city of san jose and they partnered with the catalyst group and who is with the california communityhousing agency who is focused on affordable housing in california. They proposed 400 deed restricted affordable units. I think it's important to note that our current affordable housing policy on the credits upto 60% ami and they lso propose retail. The bayview proposal was very detailed and had a strong urbandesign and the new rail had new bus terminal and separated bike lanes, lastly including net 0 water and net 0 energy. You can see along the top and the left. On the left side is office and parking and on the right hand side you see the senior living facilities, affordable housing and daycare. On republic's proposal you can see the market rate building on the left and the affordable building on the right and downtown transit plaza to reconnect the buses to the rail station. The plaza includes station enhancement including lighting and bike share and other amenities. They lso propose an off street path o connect the drive and avenue.Here you see he market rate building on the left with the pedestrian for area for sale on the right. The bay west proposal included a sketch design but the team proposed working with the community in project details. Their site site pplan envisions this with a proposed garden. And there are two pedestrian trails to the light-rail station. I will send it back to ron to go over the proposals.7:25 PMWith respect, we have the benefits of the riders and that looks at how many riders in general for the land uses and that does generate more transit riders. So given the mix of uses for the commercial andaffordable housing, the project as you can see generates more than double the number of transit riders.Similarly, it generates double the amount for vta. This project has uses the higher value, it also supports higher range for vta and we looked at the proposed value, we discounted to today's money to get a value that e can compare barely using a 5% discount. You can see the vgca project generally points to $20 million and the shared project is $11 million. . The big one is a difference because they have their model and for a term of five years. After the five year term. So for the evaluation, the existing vta staff, we also had a member of the community recommended to us by the local council office. That panel was to basically review the proposal and conduct the interviews and the recommendation based on our criteria of looking at the quality of development proposals, the terms for vta, and the experience and the financial capacity.That then led to the evaluation of the recommendation and the staff recommendation that was revised and that is you enter into a 12 month agreement with bayview development and now because we have this proposal, we are also recommending that the board authorize this and if we are not successful with ena and world charities and after that,. I will also note that in the past work has identified this project. And just to touch on a couple of items. And the ultimately build-out and from the proposal, we want to focus on making the affordable housing design quality to a more marketable account. I would like to start by sayingthat based on the recommendation for the project clearly meets the vta goals. It creates the larger number of transit riders and the largest rounds for vta and has the highest quality design and does a great job ofintegrating the station into the development. It provides the best match for the general plan. Finally, I will note that based on the materials submitted for the rfp, that the project actually the affordable housingunits. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.7:28 PMThank you. what I would like to do if it's all right with my colleagues is I would like to take the public comment and then come back to the board for discussion. I think we might benefit from hearing from thepublic. I'm oing to give my clerk colleague a little bit of a challenge because I want to give one speaking, the director of the development group two minutes. I will call on each public speaker and ask them toidentify themselves and ask if that is the person doing the two minutes. Mostly with folks that worked really hard on these and I want to be sure we respect that and then we'll ask the staff and them questions.7:29 PMI will ask the development groups to identify themselves and they can have two minutes.7:30 PMPublic speaker: board member and madam chair, from bayview on behalf of the development team along with cbna. I would like to start by expressing my appreciation on part of this process. We worked hard on vta's goals and to deliver hat is the best project for these goals. We are good night development partners for vta as we go forward on this process and we are good listeners and listening to the staff and the community and stakeholders. We are ooking forward to working with staff as we can achieve those goals. Ihope up support staff's recommendation.7:31 PMExt is linda from bayview development. You May begin.May I ask, is that a different group than the one that just spoke.No, that's the same, she will get one minute.Thank you.Thank you, madam chair, this is linda, eaton housing.Madam chair, if you give us some time to reset.Sorry, linda.That's okay. I appreciate it. I can use one minute. We are excited to be part of this group and as you know we have worked a very long time in santa clarita and we have built a lot of housing in san jose and workedclosely with vta before and we have another project directly adjacent to the hillside and we've worked with other transit agencies and other parts of the region. We are very adept to this housing and we have worked with the north bay and we are like this and we are qualified - to be part of this team and we are excited to be part of this and we hope that you move forward with the recommended proposal.7:32 PMNext speaker is michael with urban -- public speaker: good evening members of the board, michael onbehalf of the republic properties and we are housing proposal on this project. While we appreciate the excellent analysis that staff has accomplished, we do disagree with the recommendation. First and foremost, we are still in the midst of a massive housing crisis. This housing crisis has expanded so, light rail stations are the perfect opportunities to provide arge low-income projects which is our proposal. In fact we also question a lot of the data in the post pandemic world of that transit ridership and how that will actually translate into trips. We do know that housing is a very viable commercial asset despite thispandemic and we have demonstrated that through santa clara county. In the time of these budget deficits, is it a good risk by vta to gamble on a project that is utside the downtown core and will keep with the downtown core on a new large structure on such a high risk, high reward opportunity. We do not believe that in the midst in the housing crisis that it is that time to take that risk. We are also working on a hundred million dollars project and that concern is the component. I urge you to look t this and supportaffordable housing. Thank you.7:35 PMThank you.Public speaker: thank you, I agree 100% with the staff's recommendation. Let me tell you why. Affordable housing is absolutely appropriate for the area and will generate high ridership and people will use market rate housing. You need to look at those that used the light rail. I knew those people. Whether they have a premium at using coal, I would drive them. And you have to start thinking about it when you are eliminating this. Thank you. Public speaker: nancy klein, director of economic development. I just want toshare a couple of data points, as you know san jose is very committed to affordable housing and as an example there is 12,000 homes coming up near diridon and the jobs are incredibly important and nowwhere people don't have the opportunity to have as many jobs entities like healthcare providers have been talking to the city about new facilities. A site was just picked for 150,000 square foot medical officebuilding in evergreen, the arcadia proposal and there are multiple medical office users there. And just one additional point that the principle7:37 PMNancy, just stay with us because you will probably get a couple questions. Are there anymore speakers?No ma'am.I'm going to the board for comments and questions and I want staff to clarify one thing. The item before us is to accept the staff's recommendation and if the staff's recommendation is not the primary direction, what would be the recommended action from the board or requested action from the board of the staff?7:38 PMMadam chair, as I understand your question, staff made a recommendation and talked about how this is the best proposal overrul overall. If there is a decision by the board. I do believe that based on the fta's guidance to us, that we would have a challenge finding this for housing housing so direction for the board would be to cancel this rfp and ask for a new rfp. If we are asking for a new rfp for housing, we would have staff put that out for san jose and we expect the general for oing that. In that case, we have to have that discussion about this site for favored housing. We really have an issue with many of san jose that for thisdevelopment and having this discussion, we ought to have all the discussions for san jose for housing. The appropriate action is to ancel this rfp and direct staff.7:39 PMThank you. i'm going to call on my colleagues for comment and discussion starting with director peralez.Yes, thank you very much and I appreciate the presentation and the work from staff and the applications as well. I would agree with staff. I think we had three very viable applications coming in and specifically Ihave experience with both the top two and certainly with bayview and the development they have going across from city hall that is going very well and as well as vta has a history with public urban and partnerships on site and tamian also in my district with san jose. Where I differ with staff and ron, I have a challenge to what you just stated that we have to go back to an rfp. I personally don't that's the case, but i'm not the expert here, but I would like to see if there's a different pathway and I will describe some of my concerns. No. 1, I think what I do like, but would like to see more of was the number of affordable units, you have 65 in bayview and 61 in the republic, but you certainly have a lot more in the bay west project but I think there were other challenges there. In the top 2 with either one, ne of my interest would be that we boost up that affordable. I would agree with what roland said that the more affordable units we can get with this, the better opportunity to get some of those residents to be transit users, also agree with what roland said what we have not been thinking of is the actual parking on site in these locations because we know that it's not just the individuals that live and work on the site at this development that are going to utilize these stations, if we don't have adequate parking for those coming from off site, we are putting that at a disadvantage. Where I have some issues with regards to this project is to the senior living. I havenothing against senior living. I May be there one day myself, but where I have an issue as to this location, that is not going to generate riders. For low-income housing, that May be, but for the senior living, sorry, my son just ran into me.7:43 PMHey, bud. give me a second. so, back to my rant. The senior living certainly is not the best and highest use for the specifically on vta's property. The other one, simply the land use and the tools we have todetermine ridership, I don't disagree in general, jobs to create land and office development where we seeridership. I don't think it's a blanket statement that wherever you put new jobs that you are going to have a similar number of riders because of that simply because there is maybe a transit stop or transit line nearby. I think when you have job hubs like we have in north san jose or in dwntown, I do think that those numbers go up. Even still as we know, for instance the jobs hub in north san jose and even where vta's headquarters are, we don't even get a high number of our own staff taking the light rail into work or back.And I know this because I have taken it with people like roland from time to time and certainly and understand there are a good number of users, but as we have discussed and even in our own organization ways to motivate people to ditch their car and do things like charge for parking and see if we can actually get people to utilize for their vta passes whether they are vta employees or puc employees. I don't think this itself is an indication. I get that we are using a tool that is maybe accepted, but drilling down a little bit deeper, i'm not as confident in the projected annual ridership numbers in what a particular tool May tell us. I'm just using logic and using historical information based on the developments that we have, the areas that we have. The area we are talking about here, this particular area where i'm looking at how we are going to actually generate the highest number of riders and not simply because it plugged into a tool and a particular land use told us it would. That's where I have concerns but i'm not an expert at this tool and certainly willing to be open minded and curious, ron, if you can describe that how aybe refined this tool is and is it as blunt as i'm thinking where it sort of takes in simple data and puts out simple results or is it more refined and i'm just not aware of it.7:46 PMThank you, I think you touched on several topics. Of course, part of this process is that when the board makes a decision, the board gets direction on a project and we take this back to the board. I think clearly this is an increased number of affordable units if you go with the staff's recommendation. I think it's helpful to understand is that one of the challenges of affordable housing is it's such a creature of thisfunding and so difficult to put together. At least in our perspective, when we have been working with our consultant, back in the day, you would see larger housing numbers going on and with other projects, we had 160 units of development. Right now it's more in the direction of smaller projects because it's much easier for this funding and make it work. What feedback we have gotten was more in the 60s range and it's interesting that both from the proposal and charities. I don't want to say you can't get more affordableunits, I can try to do it but we have to work out these issues. I think asking the questions about the office.So I think the whole trend over the past decade is that companies go where their workers want to go and if that is with transit. If you look at the caltrain line and the numbers that have spread out during the caltrain -- and with even something like this where council is looking at this selection. Now, with respect to the tool. The tool is to gather the transportation -- they are the folks that are the industry's place that collect the data. The challenge the is that of course the data and I think that's inherently in our future withmodeling. Model is not great, I understand that shift my change, but modeling is how this will work to this point and applies to these numbers and this is what you will get. With respect to that, I feel we are confident in the numbers. This is from a whole database of projects across the country. I wouldn't say that this is an example, but this is the best model and that's why we have the confidence and why bart hasconfidence in their model and other agencies that use this. I will be the first to acknowledge that models have the irst indication. And this model, I think your point is well-taken about seniors and they are not themost active potentially. Of course seniors have those that come to them. But it's a fair point to bring up.On the other hand the reason for this project, and why we have this employment at the station is we are trying to get ridership throughout the day. You -- and we also know from this and what we articulate is we are trying to create mixed use and mixed income and entertainment nd retail along our transit network.What's the right proportion particular location. Obviously that's a judgment call based on what they do and what this market wants to do. You are making a point about senior living, but on the other hand, we don't have any senior projects that we are aware of and when you think about the transit corridor.7:51 PMRon, thank you for that response. I'm going try to keep people to a minute.I will wrap it up. I will make it brief if that's all right.Yeah, of course.Thank you. and thank you, ron, for that, if it wasn't for the time constraint, I might dive a little bit deeper in the analysis there and ith my experience with the use of some of these tools. Certainly they don't go down to the minutia of what we know of particular areas, what we know of particular developments. I thinkwhen you look at larger scale inputs like land use itself, sure, you can get out particular outputs from tat, but that's in my mind why I assume these decisions come to the board so that way we can help craft thebest decision for us as an organization. What i'm concerned about is it sounds like we don't have thatability today. It sounds like ron, you are saying, if I was to recommend that we sort of switch the order here and we move forward with the republic charities development proposal, that that's not possible andthat instead you would want to go back out to an rfp. In my mind, that akes the board out of the equation and makes me realize that we are ot able to make these decisions from what's best for our organization and instead we are relying on a tool and we are elying on our interpretation in this case of fta's thought for what's the best use for a particular area. So I will leave it there. I completely disagree with that. I think this board should have the authority to take a look at these types of proposals as you stated yourself, ron, these would all be acceptable sort of on face value. In my mind, we should have the ability to make the distinguishing difference on which one we decide May be best for the organization moving forward. So with that, I will make a recommendation that we do move forward with the epublic charities proposal and I would not like staff to go down the path of reissuing an rfp.7:54 PMRecall -- raul, is that a motion?Yes, a motion. I would like to not direct staff to go with another rfp.I just want to clarify raul to make sure this is accurate. Your motion is to move acceptance of the charitiesrepublic proposal and do an ea with them?That's correct.We have a motion. do we have a second.A second from I think it was magdalena or bob.Yes.Thank you.We have a motion and second.Any other conversation on the motion, raul?7:55 PMI want to be sure it is clear because any shift in direction would force us to go back for an rfp and that is not the suggestion of this board and that would leave us no other option. And lastly, as we go into negotiations, if indeed we do move forward with republic charities, that we try to push up that affordable number in units. I would agree with that and that should be front and center.Thank you. we have a motion and second. I'm going now to the list of commenters. I apologize, I do want to keep people in a ten minute range and that is not to stop you but is to come back for people that have comment. I'm going back to rob.Thank you, chair. he actually answered part of my questions and made some of the comments I was going to make. Really my question though is the chart doesn't really bring into account the risk factors into the decision. And you started talking about some of the risks. When I look at the bdg cdbg anand. Ena, can we get into this too because there is not enough funding. How sure is the funding, the same thing for the bay west, the affordable units, how sure are we that they can get the funding and move these forward? And you started talking about that, but are there other, talk a little bit more about the risk factors on these?7:56 PMSure. I think just to be clear, I think at the stage we are at and the level of proposal and the amount of work that any team has been able to do in this process, we are not sure about the outcome of any of theseproposals. The purpose of the negotiation is to really figure out the negotiation and the team to find out what their proposal is with their funding and we are trying to get a commitment. We identified during the evaluation that one of the things we wanted to negotiate would be a stronger assurance that we would get that in face # -- phase 2 and now we have a negotiation and we can bring that to the board and we can do it. If we felt there were no satisfactory -- assurances, we would not come back for this as a recommendation. We've had a challenge because we have been doing this on separate leaseholds. How do we make sure that the affordable housing market is assured. I think my point is that you are raising anexcellent question but at this point, we should not be thinking that we have any assurances. That is a matter for the negotiation to see if we are at the point where we feel confidential and confidence that it will happen and decided that we have gone there and the board agrees.7:58 PMThe eason I ask that. if you don't look at risk and I think you have been looking at risk. If you don't look at risk somewhat, you can be picking one that is failing and we risk the time and it doesn't go anywhere. So that's why i'm thinking about the risk also. For example, office in today's environment, it could be difficult for them to get funding for an office. A medical office May have a better chance of getting funding and that May go forward.7:59 PMAs a matter of process if you are looking at today and we start the negotiation and approvals, you are not breaking ground for at least 2-3 years. We all expect the market will be in a very ifferent place. There is only a very small number of projects for financing for all. In the current situation we are in, it's difficult with capital markets. So in a sense, you have to look at where things are going to have. I have to emphasize, it depends on the development. What we are doing is looking at the proposals that come in and why we have experts in the market analysis and experts in design and we look at these factors andreally try to say what is the benefits and quantity to you as the board but we also give yourecommendations on what we started at and what is most reasonable. We should always be aware that all projects have risks.8:00 PMOkay. I will make some comments so we can move on. I feel like raul. I think we should build more affordable housing projects. And seniors, even though they won't se that, I think transit is necessary forseniors and I know that it's going to generate a lot of traffic. One way I look at the light rail, everything south of san jose is kind of isolated because it's difficult to get places if you are not going downtown. And usually, how much is there to get in the south part of the light rail system. By ptting, you know adestination, in other words, there is a lot of housing south of the downtown. So it does make sense to me to put destinations like office there. And we are going to be adding a lot more office downtown so that willen enliven the south part of the light rail system. Also, for a long time I thought we shouldn't just be putting housing on our transit system, we need to put in other destinations. If you think about it, if I lived on a transit system, and needed to go somewhere else that is not, that is even more difficult. If I needed to get to a medical office that's not close by, that's something that May be difficult to do. If I have to get to my destination and I don't see need a car. So I always thought of getting more office kind of destination on a transit system will help our ridership. So I do like the staff's choice for those reasons. I know raul disagreed and I would disagree. I would love to have more housing from this standpoint but from a vtastandpoint. That makes more sense to me. That concludes my comments.8:03 PMRon, if we ad certain criterias and i'm looking at your evaluation criteria and we have a return on investment dollars and how many houses e are looking at affordable housing and I noticed the community benefits. Help me understand when you looked at the vta has a goal of putting in-housing, this doesn't reach that goal as a primary. So is our primarily goal to get a fgm return from the rfp?I think with respect to our goal it's to use mixed use because that's going to maximize the benefits in terms of transit. But where our goals are and this is where the board visited last year, our number one goal is to increase ridership, then our next goal is to have projects hopefully be a catalysts to transient orienteddevelopment communities and because some of these projects, that multiples the transit benefits and the third goal in that order is revenue generation. In addition to those three primary goals, we have laid out other objectives. That is to say when we have housing, the amount of housing is a function of land use plans and this market and when you have this build-out will be households of 50% ami and at least 20% of those units will be affordable. We have a lot of different goals but that's a short answer.8:04 PMRon, you had me at the three goals. O that was very nice. [ laughter ] that was helpful. The other thing about the daycare. So, it's listed as -- the total 9,000 square foot including the outdoor play space or just in door?8:05 PMI will ask joslyn to weigh in on that.It includes the outdoor space.Okay, is it going to be subsidized daycare?I think if bayview is still on the line, I think we can perhaps ask them.If I could. I mean that's an example of these proposals are still at a level where we don't have the detail. If the board desires to have an increasing amount of that we can do that, but a daycare is very importantand desirable but it is also very challenging. I think we can do daycare and work with the developer.Ultimately, when you are trying to do things like a daycare, that brings others to this and to make that happen.8:06 PMThe reason I bring that up is brown view is doing a project and I also own a daycare and I also know the challenges especially when you subsidize, it's a tricky road. I just wanted to highlight it and put a spotlight on it. When you go to negotiations for that and subsidy, it's important to know. Those are all my questions.8:07 PMThanks. we did review this in august. Do want to mention what is the risk to commercial.When you say risk, whether it's the likelihood of one kind of use versus another?Well, I guess in it weaning built and being rented and it becoming an actual revenue source for our partner, rather than potential bankruptcy for our partner. How do we protect ourselves in that?8:08 PMYes, let me talk about that concept. Camphor # -- whichever one we go with is to negotiate these terms and onditions and ultimately if we have a project that's going to work and be successful, that's where youcome to the board to ask to approve it. The lease option agreement is a contract. If you negotiate it, if the seller agrees to the negotiations like getting permit approval and getting financing approved. Then we have an obligation to receive the project. I'm jumping to the next step of the process. The reason i'm explaining that is once we get into that contractual situation, we still control conditions to ensure that the developer is going to be able to perform and ultimately we are not the only deciders in this when we go to builders and lenders, they have the strict way of deciding what they are doing. So I think there is a series of steps. So really our task in this next phase is taking the proposal is really understanding all of these items better and understanding how we manage them and is this doable and how do we get those agreements to give us the best benefit. That's why this is a starting point. We are not going to accept one project over another, but to start negotiations.8:09 PMOkay, I appreciate it. in the interest of time, cindy, that will be it for me.Director hendricks?Ron, is this the same tool that we used?This is the same tool that we used and also the same tool for the report to the board regard the ridership.8:10 PMSo I would be oncerned about making a decision that we are changing what our direction is. The fact that we don't like this tool and if we do that I want to know what is the new tool that we are now using that we now trust if we are not trusting this tool. Question, is this zoning or the general plan from san jose correct for the republic charities project or would something need to be done before they can get entitlements?Essentially this is a city project and the way I look at it, where the general plan is now residential, if you are providing a greater proportion than your fare share within the planning area and the city has a model and you get that answer of what is the greater number and if that correspond to jobs, then they will id as residential. It's a tool created to allow residential so if the general plan doesn't allow it. We have used that at other todd sites, it's kind of a backdoor approach to doing this. The issue is you have to meet the city ones and then go through an approved process and with plan and amendments and an ction on the part of the city.8:11 PMSo there is an additional step.Yes, an additional step.So I would be voting against this motion. It appears that we are changing our objectives and the success criteria. To me is where the success criteria where maximum benefit to vta which is both riders and what is catch that we can get and housing has always been the add on piece to those objectives. I want to notethat our housing objectives for vta is pretty high and across our entire portfolio and not to every single property. I would also say the reason we use tools is to get information out of them and not just my opinion. And also to say if we are going down the path to not select bayview, I would agree with staff to let's go back with the rfp process because we have different objectives in the criteria. I will stop there.8:12 PMThanks. chappie?8:13 PMThank you, chair. I have some real concerns from a process standpoint. I know that staff has worked at closely with the city of san jose to design the scope of this project, taking into consideration san jose'sdesire to bring in jobs particularly at that location. So this project went out to an rfp and people responded to that rfp based on the requirements that were in it and it went through a selection process and we selected the firm that is closely aligned with our objectives. So my question to you, ron and also to you, evelyn, is can we even make a decision to make a selection at this time. It seems to me the situations I have been involved in is you make a decision recommended by staff or go back out again. My question is both to ron and evelyn in terms of can we ven make a decision like that?8:14 PMI would like to let evelyn speak to that first and then I can follow up.I can take that question. as a general matter, member jones, you are absolutely correct that there is aprocurement process that we use and that is to maintain a consistency in the way we procure services and goods here at vta. This particular rfp, it actually has two different components, right. Here is an fta layer on that. There is a federal interest component that we need to consider. So that's one. However, the board has the discretion. So as a selection committee, the selection committee will say, this is what we did, this is what we looked at, this is how we ranked things. All the requirements that we looked at, the practicethat we looked at. It's presented to the board. The board is not in the role of rubber stamping whatever it is the selection committee makes. It has the discretion to ask the questions to wait. This isn't a bid, this isn't a construction bid. It is more analogues to a best value procurement but agree with you that what theboard wants is consistency. To do that, it throws off the process in the consistency but it's in the board's discretion to do that. I believe on the alternative section the board could go with one or reject therecommended developer and go with any of the other two. So that's my answer. I hope that answers your question.8:16 PMYes, it des. ron, I don't know if there is anything else that you wanted to add to this.I think everyone said it very nicely and we should look at all the teams that responded and it's something for us to do other things. I think from a staff perspective, we think it's important that our process is seen as fair and open and consistent and to provide the process in the future. In-I'm going to weigh in now and then director peralez, I will go to you. I had one question and that is that I remember hearing this at committee, and could you remind me what the initial rankings were at the proposal?8:17 PMWhen we first brought in the evaluation panel, I will speak on behalf of the evaluation panel. The concept of bay west project really grabbed the panel and that came in and ena when it came as a model and then with the future time period is so far out and suggested that that pe perspective of the panel for the rfp that is when it was always -- after the committee and republic charities became two and bay west and catalyst in the no. 3 position.Hank you. I will just share a little bit of background with my colleagues. This item was supposed to come to the board last month or month before. The reason I asked staff to defer it was because it was myunderstanding that the council that represents the district in san jose hadn't seen it and one of the things that I would say to all of you whether you are in san jose or a city in the county, I always want to be surethat we talk to the decision makers in the community before staff brings anything forward. So that was my request. And I was very concerned at the time because after speaking to one of the developers, I wasconcerned that we weren't following the city of san jose's process and they had an opportunity to ask for answers and give their thoughts to have it in writing. I am not going to support the motion on the floor.And I have had a long history with republic and I think that they do find work and they have been partnerswith us and will continue o be partners. But the reason is I believe that one, if there is a violation of the process, I personally would have a concern because that would have made the numbers different. I would have felt concern about it and that would have been one issue. The second is I do want to affirm with raul and my colleagues is that I really do believe that with the board if that is in our purview to make a different decision than staff. I think staff is telling us that yes, there is that option, but there is an issue with the property and how if property is purchased and we are going o have a partner that we have to check in with. There is a risk and we should acknowledge that and the board irrespective of how you vote, I think that is something that the staff is asking us to consider. The last thing I want to add is that I do think that we have lots of land that we want to let and I think the integrity of the processes to put forward are very important to make sure that we get lots of people applying to build-out along our alignment. I think that's really critical. So if there is a concern that we didn't evaluate this properly or if I had thatconcern, I would be voting no, but I think the staff did their part, I think they have shared with us what the risks are and I think the city of san jose has been clear and we did our homework in terms of reachingout to those partners. I won't be supporting the motion on the floor, but there is a motion to go back to the original after we take action on this otion and I will be supportive of that to go back to staff's recommendation. I'm going now to aul and then to bob.8:21 PMThank you, I will be brief. I appreciate evelyn highlighting this point because it sounded like the conversations was getting to the board being a rubber stamp o staff's recommendations. There is a reason why we are an elected body for this organization and it's not to take decisions that go through and it's up to staff to make the decision and ultimately as a democratic body to be able to make those decisions. I appreciate that. If anyone here is relying on the tools that we have for discretion and to rubber stamp the item, you are in the wrong spot.8:22 PMBob?Mine will be short. after listening tot council really saying that it was written in that we can take the recommended one or any of the otherwise, it feels to me as if this choice really could be any one of thethree, no. 1. No. 2, I don't think we are going that far afield. Actually, everything you said, I feel that I could support the motion as being presented. So i'm going to be supporting it mostly because I didn't really hear any reason why not after listening to you.I don't know how to take that, bob. [ laughter ] on this one, I get that people can totally disagree. Iunderstand that. I'm going to ask for a roll call vote for the motion on the floor which is to authorize the general manager to enter into an exclusive negotiating agreement with republic and charities for a term of 12 months with a six month xtension for negotiations and proposed terms for a lease option for the transient oriented development project on the property. That's the official motion. Raul, what I did is I just put in the developer that you preferred where we had the other developer. So to be consistent. So we have a motion and second. I'm going ask for a8:25 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion failed.I would like to move that staff make an agreement for terms of a lease option agreement for the terms and development of the property.We have a motion. do we have a second?Second.We have a second from chappie. Seeing no comments on the motion. Larry?Thanks madam chair, for consistency with what we did with a and f, this is the motion that the committee moved forward. I'm guessing because it's the staffs recommendation, the order that we put the motion in and we did talk about affordability and making sure there is enough parking for transit riders. This still needs to be attractive and accessible station for riders and not just people coming to use that. I want to be sure they are capita capital -- captured in the notes.8:26 PMThank you. i'm going to ask the maker of the motion?Yes.Raul?Similar to my comments fer previously. I do not disagree that this project is also one that is worth while. I will be voting yes on this and we should be trying to elevate the number of affordable housing units.That's going to be in the motion that we direct staff.Glen?I want to add that I think what we are doing is staff should be taking this into account as we look into future rfp's nd let's be much clearer in what the objectives are that we are putting out in the rfp's so we get this started from day one. This is the key learning out of this for how we want to go ahead and start these future projects for coordinating this.8:27 PMThank you.I'm not seeing anymore comments from my colleagues. I'm going to ask for a8:28 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call] motion passed with 9 ayes and 3 recusals.Thank you. I appreciate that. we are going to move to item 8. 5. 8. 5 action item - approve modifications to the employment contract with vta general manager. Packet. Are there any questions of my colleagues? I see no question and 'm going to request the motion and we have no public speakers.This is glen and I move we do the contract per the staff report.Thank you. do we have a second?8:29 PMSecond from bob carr. hat's how i'm going there. All right. Are there any other discussions on the motion?Seeing none, i'm going to request a roll call vote.Item 5, motion by member carr and seconded by nunez. [roll call]Motion passes. thank you.Now to item 8.6. modifications to the employment contract with vta general counsel. The amendment call for a salary increase.8:30 PMThis is glen, I move that we approve the 3% salary increases as stated in the staff report.We have a motion and second. is there any other discussion on that motion? I will then go to a roll call vote.8:31 PMThis is for item 8.6, motion by hendricks, second by jones. [roll call]Motion passed.Thank you, chair. . We are now moving to item 8. 8. This is the last tem on our regular agenda before we go to nuria's presentation and other report. 8. 8 information item - receive a report on increasing currenttransit service to reduce pass-ups due to covid-related restrictions. (verbal report) (tyree)That you, madam chair. good evening, I have just a few slides to provide some additional detail for this new improved service that we gave a short preview of to the committees last month. So, next slide. Here is where we are today. As you know our ridership is down due to the pandemic down 70%, but ourcapacity is also down 80-90% due to the public health rders regarding social distancing. So our county has moved into the purple ier and certainly mask wearing and social distancing will be with us for a while. Sowe are deferring our discussion and implementation of our 2021 transit service plan until we get a better sense of the pandemic's resolution. And we are focused on the immediate needs given the distance nowlargely the pass up issue that's occurring because of the social distancing. So what we are doing here we are going to look at the service increases in the top routes with the highest ridership and we developed thearea where there is the highest ridership. The routes are included in the attachment. I'm not going over all the details here. Just to say that these are our top routes, 3, 25, 64, these are very important core routes for us on our frequent networks with high ridership and we have had many pass up issues during this pandemic. And there is more frequency on these routes. Actually, some of these routes are running morefrequently than when they were precovid. This is a good strategy that's worked in other places, san francisco muni is doing this as well. This is really the best way to meet capacity needs in this new weird era of being on board. This is the first set of the three routes. This is the we have a motion and second. So four routes here. Our frequent network working for 71. Some routes all over the network all the way down to gilroy. So no area is spared service increases. I think the data is very clear and we are very pleased to this and will really move the needle as far as our ability to ridership. To do this plan, we are working as much as possible and we are using every operator we have to maximize the amount of service we can putout. The marginal cost to this service the $320,000 pr month primarily due to operator wages and other operating expenses due to fuel and tires, that kind of thing. As this additional cost is incorporated into the fy21 forecast that you saw earlier. Like I said, we are working to implement this as fast as we can and we are coordinating with atu and we have a target date of January 11th for implementing these service improvements. This is an ambitious tmeline. We are hoping to get it done and it requires all of us workingtogether to make it work. There is a couple things that are going for us in the next month or so as we implement this, #. First we have implemented this and sending out our buses realtime and where pass ups are occurring and passing that data where the new trends. And in ecember and January are low ridership months for us. The ridership should get better and in id-january where we implement this new improvedservice will be ready for increased ridership in the next year. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.8:36 PMThanks, jay. I appreciate what staff is doing in trying to respond to this dynamic on what's going on. Efore I go to staff comments, i'm going to public speakers.8:37 PMYes, roland, you May begin when you are ready.Thank you, jay, I want to echo your sentiment, and thanks to staff for taking the approach. Hat was sensible here. We have seen them come up. We also know that we have got $121 million from the feds todeal with this kind of situation. I think it's a win-win all the way around. I do want to give you a little bit ofa warning before we want to do funny business with the fed which is about to introduce a new set of orbit rules. Nobody mentioned that is transmitting and monitor very carefully what is happening to that funding.Thank you.Thank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: Mr. Beckman. public speaker: thank you for the words and information from the previous speaker. I'm, you know, this is part of like a theme that i'm learning and that I have been talking about all evening. I think the way you are developing funding and budget ideas and what you had to be doing with transit this past month I think has brought a bit of positivism and I think you see positive things that are happening in the community and especially during this time of covid, we have to force things. How can we transfer the budget why side to practice really well and do good things for and caltrain are really good examples to look at how good budget practices are look forgovernment agencies. Thank you.8:39 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: hi there, my name is priscilla working on behalf of partnership usa.We all know this is a racial justice issue. Black and brown communities unfortunately rely on public transit and pass that on to communities impacted by this pandemic and that is very strongly and why it's moreimportant that we serve those during this pandemic and that in non-professional class jobs that are working away can mean losing your jobs. What is being discussed tonight is truly urgent and important.And this new service double down on this commitment which is reimportant.8:40 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: monica. This is really important. This really means a lot to us and this is bringing a lot of positivity to the community and seeing the reactions of riders who saw this positive story. It's really incredible and it really means so much to us. I really feel like transit has a chance ofrecovering now. Thank you so much.Thank you.Next speaker, please.8:41 PMEugene, you May go ahead now.Good evening once again, board, this is eugene bradley. I echo the prior speakers comments regarding the much positive news regarding the service increases on these vta bus lines. As someone takes these bus lines, it's frustrating to see these past up and as one speaker put it, too many of these trips that were missed because the bus was too full to get somebody fired and put them on the road to being homeless.It's good that vta has inally increased the bus service on these main lines. This is needed. Thank you formaking this happen.Thank you. I think that was our last public speaker. I'm going to close the public hearing portion. Do any of my colleagues have any thoughts they would like to share? I'm not seeing anybody's hands go up. I want to thank staff for what they are doing here. A lot of times we talk about our challenges, do we have financial funding to try to get something done and you are dealing with this extra set of issues that covid has brought in terms of the requirements that it's placing on the number of people that can ride on the bus and bringing those different elements together and try to come up with a olution to improve service to our customers is really great. Thanks to you and everybody on your team and all the extra driver's out theremaking this happen. I'm not seeing anybody else's hands and I will move to item # 9. 9. 1, general manager's report. Nuria. Are you ready to go?8:42 PMThank you very much, vice-chair hendricks and to the board members. Let me just begin by expressing my appreciation for our vote of confidence and your upport of the 9th amendment to my contract. You've been very generous in its approval. I not only look forward to be working with you all but the community we serve and all the members of the advisory committees that are in the larger community. Before I get into the the measureb review, I wanted to just quickly do a 2020 year in review of how we are fairing at vta.This organization is really built on a foundational of committed people. I really appreciate that you haverecognized the staff for the great work that it has been doing. I would like to say how proud I am of the team here at vta. This year was surreal between the pandemic, the economic crisis and we dealt with the racial unrest and the presidential election, we are ready to welcome normal back whatever that it, but it can't be what we are experiencing now. I want to thank the directors and the committee members whohelped us stay focused on delivering service to the essential workers. Back in january, we started out with a very clear picture of what needed to get done and how we were going to accomplish this and three months into that adjourn journey, the pandemic happened and we went into a lock downed and then we needed to get into an emergency response and we had to get busy because we needed to make sure that the service was available to all essential providers and we didn't miss a beat. Our riders depended on usand we were there to deliver. I want to thank you all. I am really impressed by the resolve and resiliency and what every member of this organization democracy demonstrated since the start of this pandemic and here we still are and things don't look that much better and we need to wait for the next steps and decisions for what's going to happen for our community. We are not just an organization of buses, by lanes and pedestrian and pathway, we are an organization of people who help people, and we help them find solutions to their mobility needs, and our employees are the heart of this organization are most importantasset. How did we do this year? We started out this year on a high note, revenues were $6 million over budget and we were monitoring a 6% up tick on our ridership with a new ridership service plan and the route 237 express lane projects as we continued to hold the line on our expenditures and then ourridership completely dropped over 50% overnight and now we are at consistent levels and we are able twith the cares act funding, we are able to bridge our budget. This year, we were able to work with the city for their local roads and for educational programs for bicycle and pedestrian safety and sunnyvale and santa clara county express ways and we also worked with cooperate # -- cupertino for their program and s. B. Funding and the interchange projects and we finally opened the first 10 miles of the bart extension.On the safety front, year to date, we have experienced 48 buses versus vehicle incidents with the highest rate of incidents on santa clara street and el camino and charleston road and we are working with the city to deal with enhancements related to road safety. It's safety month and something e need to drive home.On the ridership front, I mentioned 30% from the covid levels and we are moving in a positive direction.Light and bus rail increased 7%. We also onducted a customer attitude survey to just determine what our customers are expecting, those who are riding and those who used to ride, and we will have results available in the next two weeks. My expectation is as we host the workshop early next year, we will have a broader discussion around our existing situation on ridership and funding and then on customer demand.So looking ahead, we will develop the business plan. We touched on that a little bit earlier today to set thedirection for the future of our entire transportation network and not just transit. Position our transit service for post covid environment and ntroduce options for advanced technologies on our real guide way particularly as we are talking about the new transit of the fture. We want to enhance our service to customers and stakeholders and we want our workforce to be future ready. So early next year, when we hold that workshop, we will be reviewing potential technologies for the light rail and discuss policy level impacts on our mission, the pandemic and the funding and the service and develop that draft expenditureplan for 2016 measure b and the program. And we created that special link for services that our customer can use them as a reference for for the November election and we saw that ridership did increase on theelection day. E are hoping that is a really important tool that turned out to be effective. Lastly our vta in celebration of our employees that are lways so giving and have a giving hearts. They collectively raised $20,000 for food banks. We had a competition and motivated by the given spirit windchill that, i'mconfident that the vta is well positioned and covid continues to challenge us and we will need to have discussions as to what our next steps should be. My team and I are up to it and we'll put safety first and we will deliver a first class service and improve our customer satisfaction in everything we do. That's my commitment and I appreciate your support. With that, Mr. Vice-chair, I would like to -- go over this report.I want to review the challenges and opportunities that our board will need to address. As we continue toimplement the projects and programs approved by the voters in 2016 and deliver on the promise of measure b. The 30 year sales tax will provide some of the funding needed to deliver on those oter approved transportation improvements and as good stewards, our duty and obligation is to ensure thatthose are process and this is going to be difficult and decisions are going to be challenging but we are going to be putting in place tools to get to all the right decisions. You have my commitment to an open and transparent process as we work together to team our goal and that is to deliver the projects and the programs that were approved. I want to quickly remind us how we got started. This is how we got started.As those of you who were here will recall back in 2014, the vta and our partners and our community set out to work on this and would recognize this would be the fifth ballot measure and we are still talking about construction needs and we needed to talk about this differently and there was an opportunity to talk with all the counties and asked to share with us what their needs were if funding was not an issue, hat were all the needs that they needed to identify and that would bring the benefits not only to ourcommunity and the county as a whole and the region and that's how this silicon valley process was created. We engaged the vta board and committees and business leaders and got involved in a very dynamic vision process to discuss the future transportation needs and identify solution and craft thefunding priorities for those solutions. O what you see before you is a capsule of where we started and how we got to envision silicon valley. So there were several steps that were part of this process. So before the measure even made it on the ballot and as I mentioned before, we engaged all of the stakeholders. We came to the board and from the stakeholders, we identified the vision for the program and grabbed the goals. To understand what the needs were and the call for projects it was on constraint because we wanted to understand what this whole universe of needs were up there and following the 18 month comprehensive and collaborative process of engagement with the stakeholders, the process for the ballot measure was then approve approved. Working with the advisory committees and the stakeholders to establish criteria that then took the large number of projects that called for projects generated over 600 projects, $40 plusbillion in the value you cans --8:56 PMAndy: we needed to all t# -- to propose to the board those needed criterias. We worked with not only the advisory committees but with community leaders. We drafted a tax measure framework that would look at the $40 plus billion in needs, call the number down to what was reasonable and could be anticipated that was a 30 year half cents sales tax that would generate at the time the $2,017 $6. 3 billion. Following that,all of the projects that could be fit within that framework were then collected by themes and that's how the nine program areas was created. The vta then approved the nine program areas and those areas were listed in alphabetical order, not order of priority and that is to this day they are in the order in multiple presentations. So then the fast forward, the measure was approved by the voters, but we have a legalchallenge but that did not stop us. We did once again engage the process of the advisory committees working with tac and others to develop a program criteria and guidelines. These guidelines, the staff took afirst cut at these guidelines and criteria that would help identify what each of these program areas was going to require to do and how to process the request for funding for projects within each of the program areas. The vta board then approved da executive biennium budget that allocated measure b funding to aprocess for measure b program that identified this cash flow and the next steps s to look at the projects and the programs for the next several cash flow options. That is where we are today in this look ahead ofensuring that we strike the balance on the deliverance on the promise of measure b. This next slide touches on that process. This is what the envisioning process look like. We started at the bottom with anad hoc committee of tac that it has been meeting on a biweekly basis with input from other vtacommittees. They will be developing the decision making framework that we will bring into the board that will include principles and for criteria for funding and rojects and program. It's important to note that in order to have a clear criteria we need to understand how to measure the current condition, the current status of all of the projects within the programs and that's one of the things hat the tac committee will be focusing on primarily. I wanted to add that refining that process just very quickly as 'm looking at this slide, refining that process is going to take us all the way to the spring of next year and we'll be looking to have a board approval on an expenditure plan a proposed expenditure plan next year some time in may.We ill have a better sense of the pandemic and a look into the programs and have a betterrecommendation for the matrix. The next slide is a snapshot of staff recommendation, a proposal- or a plan. It's a starting point of process to deliver the best public good at a can make the greatest impact as soon as possible. The measure b funds have been, we have a total of over $750 million that has beendisbursed through nine measure b categories and to date we have allocated almost 67 million for vta bus operations, $30 million for bicycle and pedestrian improvements, $237 million in highway interchanges and 30 million and 38 million in traffic capacity and for county and local streets and roads. There is no question that the measure b is a critical piece of the bart hase 2 and the cash flow on the timeline while we are showing in blue which is highlighted in gray within that frame is the cash flow needs as we understand the cash flow needs that the board has approved to date. And everything else is still part of the discussion process. And we have this for the last slide that speaks more specifically what we anticipate for the development of this framework for the recommendation of the ten year vision options that would thenresult in an expenditure lan in next year. That is the ad hoc committee that will be developed with the princess # -- principles and the values of getting support for the next projects and getting the variousonline ten year options. Options will be refined with revenue projections and capacity with projects as before. As a board, you will provide directions on principles andersen -- and -- scenarios and we will provide status to the committee on feedback from committee and stakeholders. This will provide an open and transparent process as we work to deliver this process nd programs. I assure you this is process that has been inclusive and we have continued to work bottoms up to ensure we have brought this to the advisory committee and we are here to provide advice and guidance. I will pause now. We have members available.Thanks. I think we'll let cindy drive.I'm going to ask the staff for comments and then public comment. I'm going to ask whoever is tracing the screen shot. All right. If we can go to the public.Yes, madam chair, before I start, I would like to inform the board of directors that a letter from the town of los gatos was received and will be posted later after the meeting. Yes, thank you.Calling on the public speakers, eugene. Ment you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, once again, board. This is eugene bradley. I want to thank ms. Hernandez for everything she is doing to help keep vta afloat. She is clearly the most approachable general manager I have ever had. This scares me with this projection with a lot going towards phase 2. And we were promised so much and after with measure a, that service decreased as soon as voters passed the sales tax measure. So i'm concerned and it should be a longer term and what could be the local and even express bus service in the county.Public speaker: thank you. With so much going on with the bart area, I always thought it should be a new place to build this arena. Meanwhile tht downtown san jose diridon area with the parking lots has always been so much to consider in the process present covid-19. It should also be considered for how to replacethe budget only for the next two years while possibly limiting this and some decisions can be made quickly at worse this pandemic will be only for a year and this can be a service for the much needed service for thenext three years. Thank you.Next speaker, please. roland, you May begin speaking. Public speaker: thank you, madam chair. I want to thank inure rah so uch for taking us back to the valley and what we have dne. And we need to go back.Right now the phase 1 is 50% over budget and the board doesn't even know about it. There is a new meaning to that capacity and that is the money we have borrowed and we have $800 million and we've eight years to pay it out. The first thing is to ensure this doesn't happen again and next, we ought to have this reality and my proposal is to start that we start and santa clara start tracking. Thank you.Thank you.Next speaker, please. scott? please unmute and begin speaking. Scott? Public speaker: yeah,Can you hear me?Yes.Hi. yes, scott mesa again. I want to echo what eugene said about bus service and what was promised with measure b. I would like to see some real prioritization or signal prioritization across the whole vta service area. That could really make bus service a whole lot more attractive and I think it would fulfill what waspromised in measure b to a great extent that we are not seeing today. Thank you.Thank you very much. that's our last public speaker. I'm going to the board for any comments or questions on the report that was presented.I will go to john, director mcallister.Thank you. nuria, thank you for that update. So you mentioned something about the criterias for the funding and it has something about shovel ready was one of the criterias for getting the funding available.Could you put up the slides, please. Keep going. I think you might have gone past it. But okay. Noproblem, that's not it.If you remember, i'm sorry. that's okay. But it was one of the slides that you put in there and you referenced it to the criterias for getting the funding. You said something about, yeah, this one. Projectreadiness. Yes, the purple ad hoc committee and regional impact. I wonder if you can give me a little clarity when you say project readiness and full funding plan.Right. so when we used the term project readiness is a project that has been not only planned, but there is path for funding because we know that the measure b is not roviding 100% of the funding. So there is notonly cost estimate but a funding plan and a full understanding f any type of financing for the projectreadiness. Not that project has been built but the project has been advanced to a level where there is full thought and support by partners, by funding sources, environmental, clearances already in hand. Those are the aspects of what project readiness entails. #Does bart phase 2 meet that?Yes. bart phase 2 has a funding plan.That's why you put up the bart funding for the next ten years and the hypotheticals in terms of the funding?What's on the chart and we can probably go back very quickly, what's on there is the cash flow for the bart project as has been developed based on information that we have been presenting to the board on amonthly basis for the bart phase 2 expedited delivery program.Okay. I would just like to take a minute to comment on the context as to how this came along. Joe simitian, back in 2014, 2015, 2016, did a study on how much money weighs going to the west county and the cities and there was a question about funding and that's how this order got morphed into the project because there is a balancing act between bart and some of these other projects. So i'm still concerned and that's why those projects are in there and why you hear a lot of concern and you are getting a lot of letters from this city and also about the local and street concerns. When you came up with this hypothetical modelsay like year 25, when you take $600 million and using that, the transparency doesn't really show that you are trying to make all of these other projects work on a fair balanced method and more of an observation going forward as you develop this plan. A lot of cities are saying this is not a starter. As you progress, willthose numbers, like in the purple related to phase 2 change? As the public input and transparency goes along?Once again, this is a draft ten year vision, and the reason that we are showing this draft is just to highlight how much money has been collected, how the unds have been apportioned for the first few years of theprogram program, what was included in what our board has adopted to the year 2021, and what it's going to take for the ten years. Similar to what we do with the capital program, we look at a five year plan. So this is a plan that says, okay, based on what we know, what are some of those things that we know, whathas yet to be defined and hat is the process for better defining it so we can bring a recommendation to the board to make a determination on the allocation of the funds. I'm going to ask rog because he worked very closely on the cash flow for the bart project, to chime in. Rog?Thank you, nuria. first off, I want to draw your attention, Mr. Mcallister, to your first question aboutwhether the numbers changed and these are the needs of the prong. These are what the project needs are from the cash flow. The reason I want to draw your attention. How will this fund it? Yes, it can and verylikely will change. In other words, if it's all funded on a pay as you go basis for bart two, that will take up all the money. But this is on this small amount. One of the things we are planning on doing with theprocess that nuria went through, once the tac subcommittee comes back with their analysis and review of what's needed for the project and so forth, around the same time by January 10th, I expect to get the new sales tax forecast from ucla and part of this is on the pandemic and receipts and the forecast and I have contacted them and they would give us a new forecast. And they have come to that when the finance committee present the forecast. Should be the same be speaking to the forecast. They are the experts and the board will have ample opportunity for questions among their assumptions. The expectations, he new forecast will be similar to the ones we have seen in june. There should be funds available to category 1 and once we get to the financing, yes, those numbers will change. I hope hat answers your question.The funding May be ream indicated because it says the measure b ten year vision. So your hypothetical, when you do bart phase 2, this chart says for the next ten years, this amount of money from measure bwill go to these projects.Either through borrowing or financing or other means. For example, now, just hypothetically, this is not what i'm proposing. Right now, let me speak to this, if the board decides with the information they have, it needs to be funded for $15 million for the next ten years. So we need to look at what the new forecast will tell us at that point if it's affordable in the forecast either when we get the cash receipts, or and/or whether we need to bond future receipts. In other words, bart is going to cost what it's going to cost, the capital will not change but how it is funded and how much measure b pay as you go basis consumes and you borrow against it and how much from the other program categories many of these will change.Let me just weigh in because I think the most important thing and I will say this to all of my colleagues that what's before us is this: this is, we are in the middle or maybe, yeah, we are beginning a process that we go through every two years to assess how we are going to spend money. What's significant about this and I will just be kind of direct about it is that you brought us back to the election cycle and I want to spent some some -- a minute on that timeframe. When nuria came with with very little inside the tion-organization. You john, you had lots of discussions. We were having lots of discussions about what was a fair way to distribute resources. One of the things that nuria did was make sure that all of thesediscussions happened with the full board, all of them. In addition to all the discussions that we were hving.In addition to that, we take actions all the time on budgeting and you are right and I remember that partof supervisor's simitian's assessment as to whether or not he was going to support the measure, had a last believe that he was going to share with the committees with what you represent and what I represent.When nuria came here, one of the first things when she came to us was all about board governance around making sure we were were having communications. One of these was we had a number of leaders like you that were interested in transit. Prior to that, there was a lot of interest from smaller cities that were really focused on projected that were much more road riented. I'm only saying this to make a point. And basedon the governance we made and how transparent we want to be, there was information on tax and I think we need to be more clear about this information and it's definite around this process. The reason nuria is presenting tonight, it's to remind the board where we are in the process. Now, I don't know how much inthe end is going to be spent in each bucket but we will remain transparent and we want to get a lot of people's feedback. I think the most important slide on here in addition and let me also say this, the reason you have this slide in front of you is that it was important to me to capture what had happened already before we talk about what will happen. The reason is there is some people are reacting as if we only have one project that we are responsible for and that is not true and with what we have already approached t and continue to go through this process and continue to bring it back to the board. The point tonight reallywas not to get into the the # specifics because we don't know what these are and we have to run this through a lot of people before we bring this to the board to act on. We weren't really close to that yet, butthat's where we are going. So, john, I wanted to just make sure that your questions got answered.Yes, rog said there was going to be more funding. Yes. Thank you. Good answer.Glen?Perfect lead in for me, cindy. I want to say the measure b funding was for this information and we did get boy we did get a lot of input. And we want to be clear that nobody liked the chart and that it was a draft and discussion tool. But we currently don't have agreement with everybody about how we are going to move forward and that's where we create a framework and process. As your new board cair, I can say i'mcommitted to working with the staff and the board and the public to create that policy and framework and criteria for how we are going to be able to move forward because right now nobody likes that hart and everyone thinks mine should be first which is fine. We need to create the framework so then we can goahead and figure out, get a framework we can agree to because that will help us to get to an agreement upon spending plan. I'm committed to getting that done and it's clear what we are going to be doing in theearly part of 2021 and that is moving forward and we are going to make that happen.Thanks. that's a great lead off. Nuria, is there anything else you needed to present and to my colleagues, we are still having losed session.That concludes the items for this session. I believe the other items are in the board packet.Great. thank you. i'm going to the chairperson's report and I do want to say one thing before. Sam, did you want to chime in?I'm sorry, very brief. one thing that wasn't acknowledged, thank you, nuria for signing on to another tour of duty and to for go a new raise. Thank you for that during this difficult time.Thank you. and I too before I go into the specifics of my report, I do want to really acknowledge the staff, and want to say, really nuria and evelyn and the whole team is really just amazing and i'm really grateful to all of you for your stead fast leadership. This year has been overwhelming and really in a million ways, we could have all dropped the ball and it didn't happen. I want to thank you very much for your leadership.I want to provide a quick update to my colleagues with the agreement with the social security administration. You May recall this agreement was important to get codified so we can continue to offer social security benefits to our employees. Earlier this board formed a subcommittee including me and members. In september, the subcommittee had a meeting with retirees and members and we went through this process to select an agreement and we had to get a vote by the employees. Notice of the election will be mailed tomorrow and the team will post it on the internal and external website as well as we are ending out robo calls reminding them that the voting period will be coming and the ballots will be mailed. I want to say the staff has been magnificent. I really appreciate evelyn and sandra and brandy andall of the unions. They have just been working it. It's really impressive. And glen and howard have been amazing as well and rog. Oh my gosh. Anyway, we are all going in the right direction. I don't have anyconcerns, if I did, I would be happy to share them with you. I do want to sy, they reminded me this is my last meeting as chair. [ laughter ] and really what I wanted to say is truly truly how incredibly grateful I am to the staff of this organization, the drivers, the operators, the maintenance folks, the whole team is soimpressive. And I really appreciate this board. We have lot of smart people who really care about transportation and care about our communities and it has been fun. You know, between covid-19, the 218agreements, the economic collapse, you know, even with all of that, you guys, as a team, we have moved forward so many programs and so many projects. And we really have a very good team. I am reallyhonored to have been chair of the board this year. I want to say how grateful I am to you and to the voting public and the riding public. And I wish you all great joy, peace, safety and security. I will remind everybody to wear your mask, don't touch your friends and practice social distancing whether you are nearfamily or friends. With that, i'm going to concerns and referrals. Do we have any of my colleagues? John?When we were talking about y report, I forgot to mention that I couldn't have done that without howard, miller, jeannie bruin, larry klein, susan, and those guys were part of that small passionate group. Especially howard, jeannie and rob, we were there from the get-go and you get a committee like that, they are unstoppable. That's a shout out because it wouldn't happen without them. And in an action item, when youtake the vote, I have the ability or option to cancel no. 10 and I get a kick out of that that a little guy can take a vote and take it away.Glen?I don't have an item for referral. To the last chairperson's report. I'm sure we are going to have anopportunity to thank you for the work that you did and you went to a great length to include me as the chair to help me see and get me up to speed. I really appreciate that and that's going to make a big difference on improvements going into next year and I want to do the same thing with the next year withthe next vice-chair. That really helps. Want to thank you for are that on a personal level.Thanks, glen. you have been fun to work with. I totally appreciate you. All right. Re there anyannouncements that folks have? No, you are all god? All right. Then we are going to go to closed sessionsession. So nobody run away.Madam chair, this is elaine, I wanted to let the board members know that I sent an updated updated invite at 9:15 p. M. Today. The closed session room is now open. So feel free to come in. Thank you.Okay, great.