Please stand by... for the valley transportation authorityChair hendricks: good evening and welcome everyone. The valley transportation authority board of directors meeting is called to oder. [roll call]Abe-koga, burt, chavez, jones, liccardo, paul, rennie,ings blankley; carrasco, constantine, gilmore, lee,montano, peralez, simitian,.5:32 PMWe have a quorum.Great. I would like to remove an item from closed session item e. Do I have any comments?May I have a motion?So moved.5:33 PMSecond.Clerk, please call the roll.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes. thank you.We are nto item no. 2, awards and commendations, there are none. We'll move to item 3. Public commentthis portion of the meeting is reserved for persons desiring to address the board of directors on any item within the board's jurisdiction but not on the agenda. Speakers are limited to 1 minute. The amount of time allocated for this section of the agenda May vary at the chairperson's discretion depending on the number of speakers and length of the agenda. The law does not permit board action or extendeddiscussion of any item not on the agenda except under special circumstances. If board action is requested, the matter can be placed on a subsequent agenda. All statements that require a response will be referred to staff for reply in writing. We are now ready to start public comment. Rainy, would you see if there are any speakers, please?5:34 PMYes, we do, Mr. Chair. before I proceed, we have received a comment from Mr. Saltzman and it has been posted online. The first speaker is jim, eugene and followed by blair.You May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: jim?Can you hear me?Yes.Hello, my name is jim. I live in mountain view and long time vta riders since the 90s and I sent an e-mail with information about how to handle the homeless issue now that there is an executive order in placeallowing 100% reimbursement from fema. It's a much easier situation than it used to be. I hope you will encourage the agency to offer riders, some kind of informational brochure. I have a new p. D. F from thecounty hotline shelter which has more detailed and now that there is 100% reimbursement and people are coming back from their vaccination, we should get this done as soon as possible.5:35 PMThank you.Eugene, you May speak when you are ready. Public speaker: hello.Can you hear me?Yes.5:36 PMEugene bradley, silicon valley transit users. I appreciate you getting back to me about the need to restore the light at the railing and stops. This will be addressed later on this month. I look forward to seeking hat and making that happen. The only concern is regarding the recent system attack. What are you doing about this? Has vta put something in regards to changing passwords and put in a good firewall. It's not good when you are attacked from the outside and it goes out.5:37 PMThank you.Next speaker, please. public speaker: Mr. Beiak man?Public speaker: yes, I want to offer my support to the general manager evelyn tran who is in her now position. Good luck with these efforts. I wrote letter to yourselves last week and I kept writing asking to be placed in this week's agenda packet and it was not placed and i'm going to have to have a conversationwith someone as to this agenda item. There are various speakers as to bart and this has to be considered and reimagined and with 5 or 10 shots fired. It's just as good. Thank you very much.5:38 PMRoland, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hank you and good afternoon. The first thing and I do understand the vta cioa cto is technology challenged but I don't know why you can'tprovide captioning at the bottom of the screen. That's that's what I would like to ask and on the bottom of the screen. There is no information and no report on the current or correction of the art extension and has not escalated to a billion dollars. These reports were actually available 3 weeks ago. There is no excuse for not providing this information to the board on a monthly basis. Thank you.5:39 PMWe have one more speaker. you May begin speaking when you are ready.Katherine? public speaker: hi. I would like to support the comments about housing the homeless using the fema funds and protecting vta from future ransom ware attacks. Thank you very much.5:40 PMChair hendricks: that completes the public comment for this item 3. 4. Public hearings there are no public hearings. (verbal report)n's report. - (swaminathan)Good evening chair and board. we met and we had an independent auditor on the status of theircompliance audit examination of the 200 measure program. We are on schedule to receive our report at our next meeting. I am looking forward to sharing that with you. We id hold a meeting and i'm extending an invitation to you now. We would appreciate the board's assistance in helping to spread the word and provide input to the community. On our regular agenda, we recommend the board approve the two measure b items on your agenda tonight. That is item 6. 10. Formula based program categories and administrative cost category by allocation. And item 6. 11, project readiness and criteria and methodology of summary summary, a summary of our discussion is included in the staff report. Lastly, the committee received a presentation on current transit ridership trends and the 2021 service to the planning program.We look forward to getting more information and vta's recovery road map. The next meeting is May 12, 4:00 p. M. . This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.5:42 PMThank you. I don't see anybody's hands up with questions. Before I go on, I would like to note that director peralez and carrasco has joined on. Now to the next report. 5. 2. Policy advisory committee (pac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (moore)Thank you, chair hendricks. we have received the report for the 2020 allocation of the program categories of local streets and roads and bicycle and pedestrian and transit operations and the measure b program administration cost category. We recommended the vta board of directors approve the 2016 measure b project readiness criteria and prioritization methodologies and this action followed the discussion of the apotential safety margin so particular project categories do not exceed their funding ratios and lso the committee as received the generation by city and change in improvement funding spent in the city of sanjose. We received a report on transit ridership transfer spring 2021 including a discussion of passenger pass ups and challenges in hiring and training new drivers. We received a report on planning service projects and programs plan for 2021. The committee discussed the connection between land use anddevelopment and the programs. We received the program project report for January through March 2021 to discuss how to outreach and support smaller cities with smaller resources to secure grant funding. We saw the the morgan hill plan and sought new resources for the management program. Our next meeting is scheduled or May 13, at 4:00 p. M. And will conduct it as a zoom webinar. Thank you.5:44 PMChair hendricks: thank you. I don't see anyone with questions. Chairpersons' report. (verbal sreport) the information is available on line.5:45 PMBoard member peralez, would you like to share anything?No. thank you.Chairpersons' report. (verbal available in the packet. Now to report) administration and finance (a&f)committee if you would like to speak on this item, please press star 9 or your raised hand.5:46 PMBlair? public speaker: i'm going to need a little bit of procedural help here. I wanted to speak on items 5. 1 and 5. 4. I had my hand up. Hat's going on, guys.Hold on just a second. let me check with the board secretary. Do we take public comments on the community reports?We can take it all at one time, chair for item 5.Before we go to consent, if anyone would like to speak on item 5. Please go ahead.Thank you. sorry about that. I had a speech and you did not allow my ledger to be placed on this public agenda. I wanted to right to concentrate on the chr that could be built from the corridor from stockton tosacramento can be through reasoning to promote an offer -- overall program and this could acquire funding for the project. This project will not be completed until 2035 with rail being the interim source or the bay area. This could allow for the bay area, san jose and alameda county to haggle for 2-5 to ten years over the project. I would ask that we consider these choices and be open to speak about these things.5:47 PMThank you. were there any other members wanting to speak n the committee reports. Roland, I don't know if you would like to speak on the committee reports or consent. Maybe we can see. Public speaker: I do have comment on 5. 1 and 6. I want to bring to your attention again that you have committed another violation of government code 9543. This is becoming a really serious issue. One thing I found disingenuous, is that from the report, you forgot to mention that yesterday around 2:00 in the afternoon,you testified in front of the legislature against a big bill 1091. I can assure you that as soon as that legislation passes the legislature, all of these issues that we are discussing right now are going to beaddressed with urgency. Thank you.5:48 PMChair hendricks: that's the end of the public comment on the standing committee and reports. I will now move to item 6, the consent agenda which consist of items of 6. 1-6. 20. I already asked the members ofthe public if they would like to speak to raise their hand or press star 9 on their phone.5:49 PMRoland, you May begin speaking. Public speaker: thank you. With an I want to do for everybody's benefit is to bring a letter from councilwoman on item 6. 11. And I want to read a sentence in the third paragraph.Regardless of whether the proposed expenditure violates the letter of measure b, I believe it violates the role and which is significant in the first areas that seek implementation. They May well lose faith in vta's ability to use the dollars as intended making it difficult to propose similar measures in the future. I want to put it to you that measure b is applicable to measure a. Thank you.5:50 PMMr. Beak man, go ahead and begin speaking. Public speaker: hi, I just want to be aware of these choices and I want to present those options. Sorry for any trouble. Good luck with the ideas of measure b issues and thank you so much that you continue to concentrate on transit operation ideas as a focus of how to address measure b issues. If you do that in the future, that's how we are working in mount past. It's justkey to good work how we can work well. Thank you. Finally with so many meeting minutes approvals, there has to be stuff about surveillance and technology stuff. With your big issues like in the downtownarea, is there ctually more gun use now in the downtown area?5:51 PMThank you. that's the end of our public comment on the consent items. May I have a motion?I motion.Second.5:52 PMWe have a motion and second. elaine, roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passed. thank you.Chair hendricks: thanks, everybody. That takes us to the first item on the agenda. 7. 1. Information item - receive silicon valley rapid transit (svrt) program update. Takis is here to provide a report.5:53 PMThank you, Mr. Chair, members of the board. I'm pleased to tell you we finished everything the fta asked us. April 26th, we completed the bart documentation and we continue to work closely with fta, and i'm expecting in a few days to hear an announcement from fta. Into how to -- and that's all i'm going to sayabout this. We have been working close to a year now and pleased to tell you that we are expected to have the agreement signed by next week by the state, and the city council for both santa clara and san jose now that we are going to request approval of the corporate agreement rom the city in May and june. With the state, we are requesting the process and do what we do and be aware that we are planning in June next month, to be before you with several parcels to request the necessity hearing. That's probably wherewe need to get moving. For that, we are going to brief you next month. As to the bart and vta process,well as planned. It's progressing. There is no opposition etween us and bart. And regarding thepreparations and contracts preparing, they are moving us. We are informing you based on our agreements.As for the package from bart to santa clara, we are getting May 18 for the qualifications. For the work, we got everything we expected. We are working and I believe sometime the end of next week we probably are going to have a selected showcase. And I will inform you. Tomorrow, we will get more. With the ast package, we will get request for clarification. This is the work. You are familiar with this. Nothing changed here. We still target the way we were. We May be adjusting the flags in the front, but we are where we were and hoping to stay on this. Thank you, chair. Any questions? you are muted.5:56 PMChair hendricks: director simitian, I see your hand up, do you want to wait for public speakers?5:57 PMI will wait for public speakers, thank you.Let's go to public speakers.Roland? public speaker: thank you. This is going beyond some kind of farce here, isn't it. I have been following this since January and it's one day after the report. We basically indicate that whatever yousubmitted earlier this year to the fta and hat's currently on the table is not being returned. I will be happy to fill you in when the time comes through. Now, on the issue here with phase 1 and phase 2 and the third set not monitored and now it contains a mixture of phase 1 and phase 2 and excess of $2 billion. I look for erred # -- forward to bringing you a complete report. Thank you and have a nice day.5:58 PMHank you.Mr. Beak man, you May begin speaking when you are ready? Public speaker: blair beak man, thank you again for allowing me public comment a few items back. For this item, I guess to thank yourselves again for all the work you've done in figuring out in how to work towards bart funding ideas and how to comparethat with the other vta programs and needs, and the like. And all the programs and efforts that go into measure b programs. Bart funding is a huge massive amount of money and you try to prioritize and desperate questions we were having about other funding needs and ideas, and I hope that can beacceptable to people to work towards the goal of good transit operation services. That's important concepts. Thank you.5:59 PMChair hendricks: thank you. I think that's the last public comment for this item. We will go to board member simitian.Thank you chair, and colleagues. I want to get a sense from this report whether it's ms. Kelly or tran orothers, or from Mr. Salpias, the funding issue associated with the second extension on bart, i'm trying to get just a rough sense of what the total funding cost is currently estimated to be, where we expect those funds to come from. I'm anxious because as board members will surely recall we've expressed concern, some of us have expressed concern previously about the totally of the measure b package. We were previously advice -- advised by staff that this would e on the agenda with a month prior and staff indicated it would not be on tonight's agenda and will be in august. I'm worried that in the next months, decisions are being made which we need to understand so we don't suddenly discover come august that eight of thecategories are at risk for some limited number of those eight categories of risk given what I thought were general -- assurance that we were going to think of all that. My recollection is that the second phase is something like $6. 8 billion. Am I remembering that roughly correctly?6:01 PMThis is kathleen kelly, I believe I have the recent one is 6. 9.That representations have been made that e have funding in hand for roughly 3/4 of that amount and that we are hoping that the federal government can provide us with the last quarter of that amount, am I in theballpark again, ms. Kelly or ms. Tran?That's roughly correct. there are 5 or 6 different funding sources and the amounts from the federal government is about 3 $1. 7 billion.6:02 PMThat presupposes if I May ask, with a dollar amount from measure b and that's the point of month I questioning here ms. Kelly which is why I appreciate walking through it.That's about 1.9 close to $2 billion from 2016 measure b.And if the tax estimate was $6 billion or even $6. 4, that doesn't get us to that 25% as a cap, let alone 23% change, 25% as a cap would get us about 1. 6, is not 1. 9 from measure b if we were going to honor the 25% cap. So i'm just curious what the implications are again. I'm anxious colleagues. We were going to take the matter up tonight and staff unilaterally decided to kick it to august and i'm nervous about heserepresentations being made around bart to san jose.6:03 PMIt's a little difficult to compare the numbers. The number that I gave you is a year of expenditure. So that's when we actually play it out in the year that it would be spent. The way that you are calculating which is also a correct way, has to do, that's at the time the sales tax was done. I believe that's probably 2016, 2015. So it's the difference between the date of the measure and the projections at that time. So those were in current year dollars. The number I gave you is the year of expenditure.6:04 PMDoes that mean through the chair, does that mean that $6 billion and change for tax revenue estimates hould also be adjusted or are those not in fact the expected umbers by year of receipt?Yes, when we played it out and I think you recall the one page summary we had in January be and we did the scenario with the bart, at that point we were using 30 year numbers year of expenditure numbers for measure b so the project would stay within the 25%. I can't tell you offhand. I don't have that with me, but I can get that number for you, what that total was in year of expenditure.6:05 PMBut again, my questi, ms. kelly is, I understand they are year of expenditure numbers but that year of dollar and estimate change for sales tax receipts, also if that's year of receipt, then year of expenditure versus year of receipt.I'm sorry, not year of receipt, that was in the current year dollars.Thank you.Yes.Are you telling our board of the concern I expressed about exceeding the 25% cap is not necessarily a concern because if we use the same year of receipt and year of expenditure numbers, we'll still be at 25% or something less?6:06 PMThat's correct.Okay. and is it still staff's expectation that this measure b expenditure plan which was scheduled for May for staff's direction will come to us in august or has there been a change in that timeline again?Actually the memo that you have in your consent calendar tonight and that was considered by the standing committees last month, what it showed was that we would come back in august what would be tonight was simply the memo that you received already in your packet, but what would come in august is afterapproving this tonight we go out to the need capacity based programs and we solicit their input and come back in august for the first biennial budget and the ten year projections and we'll be doing that for four ofthe six program areas because two of them won't be done, but that was also included in the memo that's in your packet for tonight.6:07 PMSo the two that are not done will now be heard when?We said it would probably be by the end of this year, those two programs of the highway interchanges because there we have to go through the criteria process that you will receive for post criteria in august and also the caltrain grade separation, we don't expect them to be done by august. So we said we would bring you the four others which include bart at your august meeting.So rather than having a comprehensive nine program measure b funding plan to review, we are going to piece meal it with four and two, is that the understanding?What you approve for the budget is the formula based programs, the need capacity we'll bring to you in august a portion and December for the rest. One thing you May want to do is to approve only the biennialbudget or those programs in august and do the ten year program all at once at the end of the year and that would be perfectly fine, but you will at least see the four programs that are ready in august.6:08 PMCan you understand the concern i'm expressing about piece mealing all these and not just by May when the staff indication previously asked to have three or four times ver the course of the year. It's hard to know, ms. Kelly, the comprehensive program when we have stretched it ut over the year.I certainly understand your concern but i'm not sure why you thought it was all going to be in May because in the memo and the board package laid out the next steps. That the need capacities would not be done intime for the biennial budget and the biennial budget will be amended in order to have those.6:09 PMMs. kelly, I thought that because I asked the question in an open and public meeting earlier in the year and the initial answer was may, that's why. And I guess the last question I would have Mr. Chairman is how can we be sure that sufficient funds will be available for the remaining programs to be considered at theend of the year if we are taking action piece meal on other programs previously? Does that mean we have, doesn't that mean we have to be mindful of making sure that if we do something like four in the month ofaugust, that we don't let that number grow so large for that four set of programs that we don't have funds remaining for the last two which means we have to have some understanding of what the demands of the last two are going to be?6:10 PMAre you asking me that question?Yeah, i'm trying to figure out how we can sensibly and prudently approve a plan each time?To accept the formula base because that will be part of the biennial budget. That is easy. The concern is around the six programs and the need capacity base and I do understand your concern and that would, if it's preferable to do it that way, what I would suggest is that I can bring you the information for the program that we have and ask you to hold off f them so you can see the plan. If we can bring you all in august we would, but we are not able to do that because we will not have been able to evaluate thehighway interchange programs because we have to bring the criteria to you first and we just don't think that's the caltrain grade separation the way that project is unfolding that it will be ready. I do understand your concern on those two. That is another option to do it all at once.6:11 PMMs. tran, if I May through the chair would like to bring a motion to support from another member or two of our board to the meeting in June in order to reaffirm what I believe is sort of an informal disvowel of thatNovember scenario that proved so problematic. How might that properly be done to ensure that we have this discussion agendaized in june?6:12 PMWhat we can do is we can have the 2016 program based scenarios come back to the board for discussion and for you to make that motion and have it heard again. We will have -- we wanted June as opposed to august. I'm sure we are prepared to have it in june.I understand that. I was suggesting I would submit a motion for consideration and possible action by our board, and as a new mmber, forgive me, i'm not quite sure how I make sure something gets on ouragenda.We have a referral at the end of our agenda to have matters referred back to the board or to have it agendaized and that would be determined between the chair and the general manager to have it on the agenda. It would be a referral item.6:13 PMAnd again, forgive me, colleagues, having only been on the board now for four months, not even for the January meeting. On what item would you like that to be identified and addressed, ms. Tran?It would be item 8.3.Items for referral. and the criteria for ensuring the item is actually heard is what, if I May ak?There isn't a way to ensure it. What it is is it would be a referral to the administration to have it placed, nd if this board wants it placed on the agenda, we can have that done for June if that's what you are looking for, but without that, it goes to our referral policy, items of concern and for referral policy that this boardhad adopted previously.6:14 PMForgive me ms. tran, I gather there is no established criteria to ensure that a measure is placed on the agenda absent a month earlier having the board agree to place an item on the agenda, is that where we are?That is correct.Thank you. thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate your patience with the questions.Chair hendricks.. next is member peralez.6:15 PMYes, just a question. I wanted to see if takis knows when the 120 day deadline for the feds to respond would be?Director peralez, the 120 days is up to the fta to determine that. They will start the clock. I cannot tell youtonight when the clock will start but that's their call. Don't know if I answered your question.No, but I guess you couldn't answer it anyway. I am curious, when is the best estimation to know when that clock starts?I assume the general manager is going to receive a letter from the fta of the associate administrator as to that and we can communicate and we are going to receive an official letter from them which will say youhave been approved and starting your clock. We do know through the communication is that the 15 days peer eview of our obligation was completed and deemed sufficient and no further requirements were asked of us and that is April 26th.6:16 PMIf I May add to that, we have been in very close communication with the fta even as of today, and we are assured that we would have a message from them in the next few days for us to move forward in the next step of the process. So I am quite hopeful that we will receive that communication that takis had referred to that puts us into the 120 day process:6:17 PMOkay. I appreciate it. thank you. That's all I have.Chair hendricks: I want to note that director burt and abe-koga have joined us.Are there any other questions?No.Okay, i'm not seeing any other questions for 7. 1. We'll go to the next item. Committee general manager to amend the contract with mv transportation, inc. (mv) as the provider for access paratransit services for vta to extend the term through June 30, 2023, and to increase the contract value by $48,000,000 for a new total contract value not to exceed $127,875,047. David hill, the chief operating officer is here to provide areport.6:18 PMThank you.I'm david hill. the chief operating officer. This is all the information for the cdc guidelines and ensuring the washing of hands and wearing of masks for the transit lines. Annual ridership as you can see generally is slightly more than a half million each I do year for the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and of course in this last year with the pandemic our ridership has decreased significantly. So let's look at the complaints. On this particular gaph, it shows two things. The blue line shows the total number of valid complaints received and when I talk about complaints, some of the complaints are not valid. For example, sometimes customerscomplain because they want a different ready window and we can schedule a red -- ready window one hour before. Sometimes individuals want someone to be picked up earlier than we are supposed to or dropthem off to a location that's not open. That happens sometimes in our daycare trips. But back for the chart, the blue line shows the valid complaints for years 2018, 2019 and 2020. In 2018 is when mv started the contract. Now, the red dotted line shows two things. O. 1, if you look at the top, it's showing thenumbers in thousands. 524,000 is the passengers, 536,000, 224,000 which are numbers that reflect from the previous slide. On the contract the standard or the goal is 1% of the passengers. So I use this to show from the red line that are allowed to go to the 1% and also use the numbers in 2000. And when you look at the charts in 2015, they did not make the standard and were penalized and had to pay liquidated damages. However there was improvement in the I do -- ear 2019 and 2020. Key performance indicators and there are several of them and these are accidents and peak miles. The key which is the on time performance which is the goal is to be 90% or less and reservation wait times less than 90 seconds, the reservation wait times are for our customers that are calling in wanting to schedule a trip for the next dayand/or request a subscription. And hat's important to our customers is a call in abandonment in our reservation which is a less percent and what this really refers to is someone that's on the phone, you knowwhat, i'm tired of waiting o i'm going to hang up. So let's take a closer look at the on time performance.You will notice in 2018 when the contract took over, they were at 87%. So they needed to improve in order to reach that 90% or that 91% at 98% in 2) 020-2021 is really really high. It's actually higher than 99%.However there are a lot less trips but they are still performing and you can see the trend of improvement and that's what we want as e ork more closely with our contract and ensuring that they are meeting the goals and really meet our customer satisfaction. Reservation wait times. The goal being 0 seconds. This chart is in seconds itself. 2019 actually it was 37 seconds. 2020, $0. 02 seconds and 2021, 13 seconds. Wehave last call in trips in doing a great job of answering the phone so someone is not waiting. And we have the abandonment call in 2019 was 2. 20, in 2020, slightly more than 1%, and 2021 with the reduced volume of calls that were actually just slightly more than a half percent or 70% of one percent. Also ta is currently providing additional covid-19 vaccine support which is really important initiative of the board that a new program in santa clarita should make it easier for seniors and disabled residents to get vaccinatedagainst covid-19 and vta has met with other transits to provide this service and this has been a success with the program and utilizing our contract mv to do that and it started off slow but with all the media and attention and information has been given, we have seen an up tick in the amount of individuals requestingthis service. So really really great. So in making this recommendation before we did this, we took intoconsideration several things. Number one, we all know we were in the pandemic and putting out an rfp at this time and having contractors come in when we really couldn't evaluate them and also possibly changingcontractors in the middle of this pandemic and making a selection. We didn't think it was prudent, so we actually took a look at mv and decided the best thing we can do is make this recommendation and that isto authorize the general manager to amend the existing contract with nv transportation incorporated and asked the provider for extra transit services to extend the term through June 30, 2023 and to increase the contract value by $48 million for are a new total contract value not to exceed the $12,787,547$12,787,547 $12,787,547 -- ,785. 47. 7 this would really push customer service that is flawless. That ends my presentation.6:27 PMThank you. we'll go to public speakers. Public speaker: yes, Mr. Beak man. Public speaker: yes, i'minterested how atu programs can help with cleaning issues and paratransit vehicles need cleaning and to develop a schedule with vta and paratransit and the disabled community and to make that a public practice and make that available to the public. It's all part of the better makings of the vta system. As you can tell I want to make open public policy ideas. That's my main focus. Thank you.6:28 PMRoland, please begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, Mr. Chair and thank you, Mr. Hill for this excellent presentation. I do have a couple of questions to the chair. The first question is whether the people who need to use this service have the ability to book online or do they have to call in and if not, I would be interested in knowing why not. The second question is why I know why someone wouldn't want to ride in 2021 because of the situation. Don't think we need t to wait two years in had 2023and not go out to bid sometime in 2022. Thank you.6:29 PMChair hendricks: I think that was the last public speaker on this item.Can you answer that question. I didn't hear.Can people schedule trips on the phone or can they also schedule trips online?6:30 PMRight, they can schedule trips online as well. It all depends. Some of our customers are not able to book because of several issues, but we do have trip booking online as well as on the phone.Okay, awesome.Thank you. public comment is closed. Do my colleagues have any questions?I have a question.Sure, go ahead.> thank you, chair. so I noticed that we didn't go out to bid because of covid, and a comment was being incprudent. Wouldn't it be prudent to go out to bid when less people are using the access to paratransit?Can you explain that?6:31 PMYes, going out to bid, the whole bid process of having companies to bid on the service, coming in and evaluating them and as we have more people now and that could change. When you impact paratransit customers, you have to train operators, you have to hire all the staff, they have to be familiar with whatthey are doing. Recruiting for paratransit operators for example is very very difficult because of the low pay. The pay is actually $17 to start, maxes out at $21. If you were to bring in a company and let's say now we are at 650 ndividuals today and they don't know where the dialogues is and so forth and how do they train their employees in the midst of a pandemic? How do you train them how to do reservations, all the things. Once you start to have problems our customers don't get the service that they deserve will be in violation and will be getting all kind of complaints, they will be howing up at the board meeting complaining about the service. So it's not something that you want to just, you can just switch to something else. So I highly wouldn't do it in the midst of a pandemic. There is also the question of why we don't do it in one year and that answer is we are still not out of it and who knows, we can have another variant. We have to always look out for the care of ur customers, no. 1. That's what we do.6:33 PMOkay, I see. the other uestion is how long have we had this contractor and what is the policy of getting out to different contractors?We currently have four years. it was due to end June 30th, that would have been four years. We do have subcontractors for this contracts that they use and those are the taxi companies who we send out on overflow trips and the they have wheelchair accessibles and they can do up to 300 trips and this isprecovid and when we reached capacity and by law we can't have capacity and we send those trips to our taxi subcontractors in order to provide the trips especially the log legen ed trips where we can't put over the regular amount on the trips.6:34 PMDo we buy the cars? the hardware and they provide the services, is that true?That is true.Okay, we are paying, that's a lot f money. And I don't remember, you said we've had this contract, this mbtransportation?For four years.Four years, so we just had them for four years and that's it. We didn't have them before?That's correct.6:35 PMOkay, my last question is, since many of our riders are being passed up, I was just curious, is there any way that paratransit access can pick up some of those folks that the bus can't pick up?Right, and we've been asking that question before and unfortunately we can't because we don't have the resources in order o do it. Now, on one ide of the fence, everyone believes you are picking up less peopleand you should have more vehicles, but with distancing we are nly able to pick up one person in a vehicle at a time and they can have their personal care attendant. The second thing is we are not able to utilizeour sedans because there is no space and in a prius is so tight. So we are having to pick up one person at a time and that means you are using all of your vehicles because of the ones and we don't have the resources to have this fixed route. With -- we would love to but with your not able to.6:36 PMThank you.Member chavez?I would like to motion to move this item.There is a motion and second by chavez and montana. To your comments?Thank you. I just wanted to say to staff that the improvement over the last four years has really beentremendous. And I think one of the opportunities we have and I want to follow up with one of carmen's points is that i'm really hoping that covid gave us a chance to reassess and earn what the improvements have been so they can be ingrained in the continuation of this contract, and for some of us, we were herewhere it sort of all the wheels came off that program at once, there is no other way to describe it. And I want to thank the staff for the work that they have shown and also for the improvement with thiscontractor. I would like to see the numbers in terms of the complaints and the response times too stay as close as where they are so we can keep them. Thank you.6:38 PMChair hendricks.. director montano?I forgot to move my hand.Drector?I appreciate the hard work of staff to put the wheels back on to continue the metaphor. This was a big mess that needed to be cleaned up moving forward and thank you for your hard work.Ou make me think testimony wheels on the bus go round and round. [ laughter ] you gave us some quantifiable numbers of the metrics and the service of what's going on. Maybe a little bit more soft answer.If we were gto just go out to ask our customers as to this service, would we get a thumbs up? What are the responses that you are getting from ur service now?6:39 PMParatransit and service and the outreach, if anything is wrong with their service, the board of directors will know it without a clue because they will show up in numbers at the board meeting and since I have beenhere and right now as you know the paratransit manager has left in january. We just hired a new regional manager and since I have been here there has been one instance where one person 3 came to complain at the board. I made sure we researched it and took it, but that is the best gauge that you can have and alsothe advocate groups who are also customers as well, they will bring it to your attention as well. I think if we didn't take the steps that we took or fixing to take this evening, I think or if we don't, we will hear from them because there will be concern and have heard from them as well. The main thing for us as an organization and I told the contractor is that we are going to provide a quality service and i'm responsible for it just as they are. So the buck stops with me. So if they don't do it, i'm the one to blame because i'm in charge of it. Our customers come first and we need to provide a quality job. If there were complaints tonight, they would call and say don't do it.6:41 PMI don't mean that there are complaints but there are the metrics that we look through the glass and the customer side where sometimes their view is a little different. It sounds like it's going good and I want tosay thank you to you and staff and everybody that's worked on this. Director liccardo?No.Okay, ith that. we have come to the end of this. We have a motion and second. Elaine,6:42 PMClerk, pleasplease do a roll call.We have received positive comments. With that, [roll call]Motion passes unanimously, thank you.That's going to take us to item 8. Public comment will be for all the items under 8. Evelyn, it's yours.Thank you. we detected a cyberattack on our system and the vta proactively shutdown the core system to ontain that attack. Because of that shut, vta administrative business was interrupted as we had no accessto enterprise wide system or service for those working from home. Vta has since engaged third party experts to bring the system back up safely. The vta transit and paratransit service were not impacted.However, for about 10 days, paratransit trips had to be made via person-to-person communecommunication on the telephone versus computerized function. Currently, everything has been restored.6:43 PMAnother tragedy. Tuesday April 27, a vta operator was shot in the back by an arrow. He operator was walking in a residential neighborhood on his break near theal -- alum rock center. There is an investigation underway. So far they have not secured the perpetrator. The operator is recovering well. They have not found this person and there is a total of $3,000 for information leading to the capture of the assailant. The next item on my report, I would like o give you an update related to covid-19. More than 900 vta orkers,frontline bus and perators and mechanics received their vaccinations beginning March 10th at a clinic dedicated to vaccination of essential workers and educators. The center took over for this population. As you know, because of the public facing the essential work that vta provides. Vta had 75 volunteers from its various unions, atu local 65, local 101, sciu and local 21 and as well as administration employees workingmore than 200 shifts checking people in, making sure they had the right appointments, directing them to their vaccine and monitoring they didn't have any trouble after the 15 minute observation period. We are proud to support santa clara county on this effort to get as many people evacvaccinated against covid-19 and seniors can get a ride from vta. The driver will pick them up to a vaccination site of their choice and wait for their shot and take them home. This is separate from where we would transplant the required one way. This is for a service for those who are isolated. Vta is able to take up to 50 passengers per day on thisprogram and the ride is free as all of our transit required services for someone going for a vaccination. You can see the reservation number. So va's working with bay area vta community ealth to the light-rail station. I would like to thank our board member san jose sergio himself # -- jimenez for the bay area community health that was running out of locations. At the light-rail station, it's easy for people using transit to stop by their destination site to catch the train or on their way home. It is also a drive throughlocation so people can stay in their car during the whole process of getting the vaccination. We held a press event and it was in the news, radio and got complete coverage and we thank board chair hendricks, council member jimenez and other members who worked on this promotional event. We would like to emind everyone that all vaccinations are free under vta. Our annual report. So vta released its annualreport for 2020 which include several accomplishments in addition to our response to our covid impact.This will be posted on our website as well. Among those accomplishments, we take open two bart stations in 2020, successfully launched the federally mandated 360 degree approach throughout the agency and used the federal rant to educate employees on trafficking. I'm going to ask our chief larsson to give us an update on the transit recovery task force. Jim?6:49 PMMr. Lawson, you are on mute. sorry.I'm sorry, you would think by now I would know how to do this. My apology. The metropolitan transportation commission created a blue ribbon task force in May of 2020. This task force consist of some 32 members and the purpose as to guide the future of bay area of transplantation -- transportation as we adjusted to the covid pandemic. This was done by supervisor spuring and the membership included a hostof officials, general managers, legislators, business groups as well as transit and social justice activist.They adopted the following goals. . The first was to recognize the critical recover challenges facing transit agencies, second to advance equity, third to identify near term actions to identify long-term initialmanagement and governance reforms and finally to establish how current and mtc with transit and government reforms. They have also asked to come up with some principles to guide the recovery act funds that have been allocated to the nine county bay area. There is a written report in your packet that notes these principals. S # these principals are drafts and first are to stabilize transit and funds to be used for the financial stability of the regional transit operators and part of that is because unlike vta, several are facing layoffs in the next year unless they receive funding. The second was to restore and reimagine service and funds and to restore service to meet demand at levels necessary to support increase local andregional demand through september. The third is to improve customer experience which is something that could be done and then his could be done through more unified messaging of way finding for transit. With that, we know that vta is represented by our general counsel and acting general manager evelyn tran onthis organization and they will be meeting again on May 24. This is a potential workshop scheduled on June 9th for the transit operators to layout their financing and operational needs for the upcoming year and to influence the distribution of those funds. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.6:53 PMThank you, jim.If you have no questions --We will have questions --And jim is also on the recovery task force. I'm glad i'm not the sole person from vta. Moving on. 8. 1a. I have asked jay tyree for the report. So jay and jay.6:54 PMThank you. I will walk you through the slides here. I'm going to walk you through two topics and one being the ridership and pass up issue and also the service plans that we have for 2021 and happy to nswer any questions when we get to that point. This first slide here. You have seen this report which is an updated lide for our ridership. The last time you saw it, as you can see we are recurring about the seven day, about 40,000 riders and up about 40% since the furloughs. So the most present issue is the issue that we are facing with the county health order with restricting our capacity by 80 to 90% and unfortunately we haveto pass up people when boarding achieves 10% capacity. I will show you what we are doing to maximize service and this slide here is also an updated slide you saw last in the board of directors meeting in april.At that time we were running about 1,000 riders per day on pass ups. That's a seven day average on that March peak you see there. Now we are running up at bout 68 pass ups per day as noted in the workshop a couple weeks ago. I think one of the reasons that we are seeing this normalization with riders adapting to the system is the transit an does provide transit information realtime and now they are looking to see the buses they are hoping to take that will change the demand there. To provide a number of pass ups here.6800 pass ups per day is between 3. 5 of our daily numbers. On February 8th, we major a major service ncrease to the maximum extent possible given the number of operators we have. We are using every operator plus over time to maximize the number on the street. This is an important issue. Our staff hasbeen pending every waking hour looking at ever creative opportunity we have to squeeze out every additional bit of service and every bit can make a difference for our riders, we know that. And what we arelooking at is we are continually updating our rosters based on pass up information to our dispatchers. This is hard because my boss explained at the board workshop is like playing whack mow, the ne day it's oneplace and the next day a different place. So it's very hard and we do our best as the patterns can show us patterns. And we have short runs or short shifts that our operators do. An operator will do a piece of who,that brings him back into the yard at seven hours and they can go and provide a few more trips. So we are creating customized pieces of work and they can go here and do this route because that has higher pass up levels. Atu made a suggestion that they are willing to look at opening and relaxing some work rules. Soour team is looking at some of the work rules that we have in place now if what would happen if we relaxed some of those work rules. That analysis is being done now for the next sign up. I will explain this in a few slides here but e are proposing adding more slides in 2021 to increase service faster. But suffice to say, we are doing everything we can to look up under every rock to provide as much service pssible.Having said that, this slide is really important because there is some misinformation, it is not possible to lieliminate the pass up issues and this slide intends to explain the capacity issue that's going on. We canonly carry 10% of our normal ridership at the capacity restraints that we have until that becomes an issue.We start to see randomized pass ups at the system and that doesn't mean that everybody at 10% means they are going to get passed up, but if you pass he speed limit, it might catch up with you. As long as we are under that six feel social distancing. So we are at 40% now. That doesn't even include increases and future demands when schools go back in and the economy continues to open up. We did take a look to see what service level would be required to eliminate pass ups. And the answer is we would have to buy an extra 500 buses, that's more than twice the number we have today, by the way, we don't have a place toput them and we would have to buy more property and have another one or two yards. We would have to hire 1700 additional operators that would be 240% above the normal operators and that is above anychance that would happen. We looked at the data and as you know, we increased service on our top seven pass up routes. I will give you four of those routes as an example. On two of those four routes 66 and 68, we are already running at prepandemic and the pass ups are getting worse. There are ore people wanting to take those routes, and the 24 and 25, are passing up people. So this shows that this cannot eliminate this problem. All of our peers are seeing the same issues from boston to portland to seattle where you have mass transit and capacity issue. Not to say that we are not maximizing our trips because we know it means someone getting to the hospital or doctors appointment or wherever they are really going. It reallymatters and we want to make sure that expectations can be managed. That's pass ups. I will go back to the next levels. We are at the highest number possible with those operators. Ut we are now establishing our goal o return to the 100% level as soon as possible. We couldn't agree more with the riders that arescreaming for more service and return to 100% service. We want it as bad as they do. So our goal here is to get back to 100% as fast and safely as possible. We brain stormed together how we can speed up our hiring and training process and our training team is here by the way, for any questions if you any questions about this training program. You can see here we've scheduled back-to-back trainings through the remainder of 2021. This is as many people as we can train at a time and as much back-to-back at a time and as much overlap as possible that we feel is possible while continuing to train safely. So, that's the 34 classes of 34 through the point at which we get fully staffed. So actually my last slide here is one more.Shows the projection of our bus operators at the end of each month. You can see where we are today and you can see where we are each month through the end into next year. This is after the normal attrition that we see. We of course lose some operators every month to requirements rooirments # -- retirements and you can see where we are today and the bus rider counts increase over the remainder of the year. At the bottom, there are four months that are circled in blue. Those are sign ups that are in the atu contracts.Those are what times we have to increase service. You can see here, we have a service change in June and we won't have the graduating class yet and we are moving some things around to improve service but not a service increase. Now fully staffed is 973 bus operators. That's what's in the budget. Ou will see the fy22-23 budget you will see both fiscal years that is 923. We can put out 100% service with theseoperators. Our estimate to how many operators we need to reliably be able to put out 100% service is 900 operators. Any lower than that, we start missing trips and riders get stranded. It's a terrible thing for ur riders. You can see our goal when we have a sign up is to increase the service to the maximum possible that will be available during that sign up period. This gets to the point that I made earlier and one of ourproposals and ideas is what if we can add two more sign ups in the latter half of this year for one in august and one in december. That will allow us to increase service sooner than if we just had the other sign ups.That's one of the things that we are talking with atu about. I think that completes my report actually.7:06 PMThank you, jay.Next item. 8.1b. a government affairs update and that's provided to the board and in the online packet.And the chairperson report which is also on the agenda online packet.7:07 PMThat concludes the general manager's report.Ecellent. we are going to go to our public speakers.Mr. Chair, before I call on the speakers, I would like to note that letters from svlc has been posted online.Calling on the attendees. Eugene, you ay speak when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board, this is eugene bradley from silicon valley transit. I can't believe that vta is doing everything possible torestore service. Ow is that possible when you basically snub nose those to get service as fast as possible.Also in the budget proposal upcoming letter. Overall, vta's got to do better to get service up now because right now it looks unprepared for our economy recovering and going back to service and possibly linepossibly to june. So vta, get the act together, get the service going in full back to prepandemic now. Thank you.7:08 PMPublic speaker: over a thousand bus riders are being passed up and when businesses open shortly, more riders will be left behind. We implore you to return service right away. This is about an equitable recoveryfor vta riders who are people of color and mostly low-income who depend on transit to get to work and essential services. Riders risk losing their jobs if they are continually passed up especially now after a year of this devastating pandemic. This will also restore our increased service sap if we are in the hopes of reaching our climate goals. Thank you very much for your time.7:09 PMNext speaker, please. public mark, r: you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: hi there, mark. We are in a make and break moment. Let's be clear, vaccination is hitting a point and we need to be prepared. If p you do not have capacity up in time, people will say, transit will make it an object and we need transit to not only go back to previous levels but grow. The seeing that presentation to saywe need to double our fleet, yes. You need to create more storage, you need o grow. We need a vta that is serious about growth potential and not just an obligation. Vta needs a larger chair and incredibly importantto increase capacity really by early summer. It's extremely important. Thank you very much for your time..7:11 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: thank you, chair. I was pleased to see this light rail use. On the return and the interim opined that there was no longer oversight because the vta was already under the fta program management oversight and as you know fta has only half of the books. On the governance, Ithink is a serious issue that you should sum up a blank agenda on Friday and I don't know when this came through. And the other comment I would like to make is about the $42 million in in transit and $125 million for funding, why can't you use paratransit provided for the people that are left on the side of the road, thank you.7:12 PMPublic speaker: hi, my name is alexis. I'm 15 years old any it's essential that transit is 3 restored as soon as possible. This is important to me because of the drastic fires in the future and more people will resort to driving. In addition many essential workers and others use transit to get to work and cannot afford to loseit. I urge you o restore service sooner. Thank you.7:13 PMNext speaker, please. mary, john and -- public speaker: good evening, everyone. I want to say that evelyn tran and kathleen are doing a great job and they were handed a messy situation. But there are some facts that are not being pointed out here. We are not ever going to eliminate this pass up. I don't know how vta is reporting the pass up because for the past month, we have not had a computer system and vta has been encouraging our operators not to tie up the airwaves by reporting on the radio. That is not an accurate number. The number is still as it ever was. Vta has refused our proposals and I don't think theyare serious and I have a proposal in my hand that is aggressive. If anyone wants to look t the proposal I have right now, I can show you how aggressive they were. And vta wanted to reduce the amount of sign ups we had, not atu.7:14 PMI told john that I would be willing to let im speak a little longer. If john wants to continue for a couple moreminutes, that would be fine.I think that last one came already.John?Thank you, I won't take up much more of your time. We need to sit down and talk about how we need to reduce pass ups and that turned out to be a negotiation situation and that's not what we wanted. We sat down and proposed additional training, that was shot down. We proposed ncentivizing over time, vta has $100 million in over time and we could incentivize over time and that was shot down. It wasn't shot down completely but the trade off would be unbearable for our workers as they wanted to move operators from yard to yard. And we don't want to be spreading covid from yard to yard. They are considering putting thatback in the language. At this point I think we need a mediary. Someone to sit down with us and something we can do to put more absolutely on the street. The idea of saying that you are going through and you need 500 more buses, I felt like I was almost buying a used car. We get it. We understand that. We needto pick up as many people as we can right now. We are going to enter downward spiral with transit. These folks are not coming back to transit and i'm willing to sit down with vta, all we need is a third party to help us get through some of these rocky points. I offered to negotiate all last weekend and I didn't get a phone call back. I'm honestly we are at our witnesses end -- wits end here. We are putting our best foot forward and we are getting rejected. I appreciate all the work, glen. Everybody have a great evening.7:17 PMThank you, john.Ma, you May begin speaking. public speaker: suhry?Hi, i'm a member of mothers out front and I was going to come here to say that you should restore vta 100% but after listening to jay, this is the motel to be aspirational with public transit. Before the pandemic, we didn't have the greatest connection and greatest frequency in public transportation and we didn't have the greatest connectivity between the different modesto of public transit. I know you compared us with boston and other cities but we are lagging from those other cities as well and now is the time to invest ininfrastructure and now is the time to step up our investment in vta, not just 100% but go beyond 100%. I really hope you will take that under consideration. Thank you.7:18 PMThank you.Mary, you May begin speaking now. Public speaker: hi, my name is mary dowd. I'm here with turnout for transit. I'm an essential worker and have been very radically affected by the reduction in vta service. I liveon the 66/68 bus route and I have to say the number of the pass ups are far more than reported here. The pass ups at almost every bus stop. The buses don't stop at bus stops during the day and you have to walk a great distance to be able to get on the bus. O that means that basically we could not count on the bus, we could not rely on the bus to get anywhere. The message I get is that somehow vta thinks that peoplehave a choice about that, well if you are an essential worker, you don't have a choice about getting to work. The rest of the other transit services is not accurate. There is no pass up limitation on bart or muni or cal --7:19 PMNext speaker, please. kevin, mary and monica. Kevin, you May begin speaking. Public speaker: thank you, my name is kevin ma, a resident for palo alto and vta transit should be called out than earlier. As you know this magic number that is going on with the pandemic and there is going to be more time. And as more service does get back to normal by the next school year because students want to take the bus. If we make it such that parents to find alternate means for transit, people do find alternative routes for vta and if we need to do this for equity, ecause you can't control the number of ka ares that come into the city andthe money coming in from the government, we should be using that money to reduce pass ups.7:20 PMMonica, you should be able to speak when you are ready. Public speaker: this is monica for transit. I urge you to speak for this services and the plan and i'm not going to get into the reasons of why because youhave been talking about it since last year. His is really important and this has been incredibly frustrating.We are the first people in the bay area who have pushed for this elimination of pass ups and bart, and other areas are in far worse conditions than vta. At the September 2020 workshop, almost all voted for supporting transit service and there is no help for people that are struggling. Please figure this out because if you don't, you are going to lose a lot of riders, thank you.7:21 PMNext speaker, please. alley and tommy and deanna. Dean a you May begin speaking when you are ready?Good evening, my name is deanna crabtree and supporting turnout for transit and would like to urge you to prioritize transit service and restore transit as soon as possible. I would also like to echo the comments that now is time to be operational. My friend was able to connect to the 25 to get home and you feel the 25 came 8 minutes early and the next opportunity was 40 minutes later. Of course this is not workable. It's really really unacceptable. I appreciate all the hard work and realize this is a very challenging time during the pandemic but we must do better and it's the time to be aspirational. Thank you.7:22 PMYou May begin speaking. public speaker: hi, thank you. I wanted to echo a lot of the similar comments around being aspirational around increasing our srvice. I noticed as the pandemic has gone on, our roadshave gotten more crowded especially around san jose whether that's essential workers whether it's people driving to meet their shift requirements and I am worried that people are going into cars and never goingto come back and that has a huge quality of life for others. The other thing I wanted to get out as we get to aspirational improvements is definitely allocate for the caltrain program and to ensure it is in good repair and i'm a frequent caltrain rider and there are many disruptions. Thank you for what you are doing to help get people back on transit. Public speaker: hi, good evening board members, this is deanna levin and i'm in support of turnout for transit and want to support what many have been saying in terms of reallyencouraging reducing pass ups as much as possible and restoring service as soon as possible. The mtc just came out with its principles with the next round of federal relief for funding and one of the goals for funding is to enable estoration of service in august timeframe when people are going back to school and work and expect caltrain and bart train to restore services. Please try to do that and also expect you to work with partners with caltrain and address the capital requirements to enable that maintenance budget to be funded so the trains don't breakdown. Measurerr did continue to assume some contributions by the partners. So please do.7:25 PMAllen? public speaker: hi, this is allen yu, with turnout for transit. I want to say how important it is to restore transit and increase service as much as possible. I'm from santa clara. Unfortunately I own a car, but I really don't want to, but with the way things are, it just doesn't work at all or me. And that's great and all, but that's just me. There is a lot of other people who don't have the option to own a car or have to take transit for other reasons and they are getting passed up for job opportunities or going to a job interview or going to work. This idea of opportunity and we should really be striving for as much service as possible as we come out of this pandemic. We are creatures of habit and we'll be creating new habits as we come out of this pandemic and going back to normal so we should try to capture this as much as possible.Next three speakers are sid, jerry and katherine. Sid, you May begin speaking. Public speaker: hi, thanks for letting me speak. I just want to echo what a lot of people said about the importance of restoring bus service as soon as possible. From my perspective, I commute to the south bay from the east bay and I depend on vta heavily to commute to my office at least before the pandemic. For someone who is transferring from regional transit, low frequencies add a lot of time to what is already a long trip when you are already heading home which is frustrating as things go back to normal and vta restoring service, there is a risk of losing people who are commuting from the outside area and that could affect the transmission problems that we have in the south bay. Even if service gets restored service eventually, some people May not come back. You need to restore service as soon as possible.7:27 PMKatherine, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, this is katherine from san jose. I'm with turnout for transit. I feel what everybody else is saying to restore services as soon as possible and especially stop the turn downs and I was excited to hear from one of the speakers who says there appears to be funding intended for exactly this purpose. So please restore service even if it means having to pay over time to the drivers because of difficulty getting new drivers. Thank you.7:28 PMNext speaker, please.Next speaker, please.Next speaker, please. jerry, you May begin speaking. We can't hear you. TheHello?Yes.Public speaker: my name is kelly, i'm from cupertino and would like for you to restore services as soon as possible. We know what we want it to look like. Do we want more traffic the way it was before or do wewant alternatives. I can say for people in my family are a lot older and don't speak english and relying on transit to get around. It's important for vta to hire as many operators as they can and get them back byjune. Vthis is the time. Thank you very much for your time.7:29 PMJerry, you May begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker: good morning, board members,Can you hear me?Yes.Just want to echo what many have said. I just urge you to prioritize restoration of transit service and explore ways to get service back to 100% sooner. Let's get back and start over and build from the bottomup. Vta has said no to a lot of things that we have recommended. We can not wait until October 2021 to return to full service. Vta has received $133 million stimulus funds and more on the way. So using over time to increase service is definitely an option. In September 2020, board members agreed and voted to restore service by June 2021. Let's do that. The agency pretty much needs to just make it happen. Too many people are being passed up. Thank you so much.7:30 PMLast speaker is mtthew. go ahead, please. Speak public speaker: hello, y name is matthew, I usually speak as a journalist but today i'm talking as a younger citizen and student and talking from canada. I must say it has its flaws but nothing short of wonderful to me which is what I want to say for silicon valley.Increasing back to 100% of our current capacity would be beneficial and doing that as soon as possible would be beneficial not just from an equit equit equit equity standpoint and making it an overall quality of life for us and noticed as trying to increase our fleet, I don't have the full data but what if we use our new flyer for say 22?7:31 PMThat concludes our speakers.I don't see any other public speakers. I'm going to close the public speaker section and go to director liccardo.7:32 PMThank you, chair. I want to thank all the members of the community who came out to speak. I appreciate the frustration and the desire to see more service. I had a question for jay. If the county and state healthguidelines were totally aligned, how would that affect the pass up issue?I'm not sure what you mean by aligned. The statewide guidance does not, i'm not a legal expert. Myunderstanding the statewide guidance does not pertain rider to rider but operator to required distance and the counties have interpreted that differently than ours and for example in the bay area and this has happened all over the nation. People have seen this all over from san francisco from 6 feet to 3 feet. So the different counties are interpreting that statewide legislation a little bit differently and that's theirprerogative because they have that power.7:33 PMOkay. so, would it affect at all the pass up issue if we were to interpret to 3 feet instead of 6 feet?Absolutely, yeah. the 3 feet, the pass up issue, it's very hard to tell because from day-to-day that changes.It's about the turning point which it goes away. I couldn't guarantee that the pass up issue would go away but we would see a marked improvement and would better manage with one off solutions with customized schedules and that kind of thing.7:34 PMRight, are you looking at other agencies and what they are doing with this and are there additional precautions they are taking to address concerns of drivers, drivers unions about these issues?Yeah, I wouldn't portray myself as in research of all of these concerns but the one I see a lot is relaxation of these barriers. There has been better training in airflow circulation with the vehicles which incidentally vta did last year as well with our air circulation and also the operator barriers, the insulation of auto barriers and I believe we are getting them soon. The protective barrier one is one that comes uppermost often so it's tied in line with when they can relax.7:35 PMIs there any difference in terms of performance and the temporary and permanent barriers. Is the permanent barrier better for some reason?I can't answer that question. evelyn, anybody else?I'm just trying to understand the reason for waiting until there is a permanent barrier is it because we believe it will somehow do more?This is evelyn. the current barriers are in place. It fully protects the operator and if everybody is acting the way they should which is they go through the front door and immediately just pass the operator, thereshouldn't be any close contact, it really shouldn't make any difference.7:36 PMOkay.I'm just trying to understand what the obstacles might e to us getting to a place where we could adopt and approach some of these in san francisco and ensure that everybody is comfortable we are operating safely.Evelyn, do you have anymore insights about this that you would like to add? I'm trying to understand the issue more fully.I think jay covered that in his presentation and the issue we are dealing with now and jay, we are at 80% of preservice of pandemic now and we are moving in October '80 and December 1, '00. We are putting in our budget for 100% service. But it's not the money issue but the six feet distance that we have to abide by and the buses being down 90%. Even if we move to 100%, it's not going to solve our pass up issue.7:37 PMRight, that's exactly my focus. I'm much more concerned about the capacity than I am about the percentage of service particularly given the fact that our passengers are so down and given that folks are stranded and folks who are relying on buses are often going into this very industry that are the hardhardest hit and restaurants and hotels and jobs that are very vulnerable. I really hate that they are losing their jobs and losing money. So I think just having more buses is not going to solve this issue with morebuses for more riders. Thank you and I appreciate you working on this very challenging issue.7:38 PMThank you. next is director constantine?Thank you, chair. I just want to echo director liccardo's sentiment that everyone is working hard on making sure that we limit the amount of pass ups and i'm sure that everyone is working extremely hard during avery difficult time. But i'm concerned about the comments made by Mr. Courtney of atu 65 and their ideas are not being heard and I wonder if someone could address specifically and I know there are two sides toevery story and sometimes three, but his voice was palatable. If someone can speak to why and what concerns are brought up that May or May not be working, I would appreciate it.7:39 PMChair, I can respond to that.Okay.Earlier today I sent to the board a communication because of the concerns with negotiations with atu and I don't want to get into full specifics here but we had met with the union leadership ten times. It involved various staff levels including myself and cfo. I will say that the proposals in general terms relating to overtime pay, relating to an attendance incentives why agreed to on a principal level and we actually in fact changed draft agreements that were proposed. So all of that, the specific information is included in mycommunication to this board, and I would be happy to respond off line to any board member who wants to dig deeper into the back and forth of that negotiation.7:40 PMSo the issues that were brought up were in regards to over time only, there wasn't any structural information that was brought frward?There were specifics. we actually drafted something, an agreement and proposed that based on -- so, I can be more specific. There was an agreement on whether it's one 1/2 or two percent over time, two timesrelated to over time, I believe we had already agreed to that. There was one relating to how much pay for attendance and insist # -- incentives. We didn't agree to the amount but we had to agree to that concept.We asked for additional flexibility to address needs in service levels by, and we had done this before and stopped doing it nd because of covid, we didn't want to move people between divisions but in order to give it the most flexibility and we put in there expressly the flexibility between operators and the divisions tomeet the needs that is necessary for additional service. So, we had asked for flexibility in the sign up period. I think jay had talked about when we had sign ups that's in the collective bargaining agreementwith atu and some proposals for flexibility there because as we are all anticipating June and what the governor is intended to do with opening up the economy as well as schools reopening, we wanted some flexibility there and we had some proposals we submitted. It was not in my opinion shot down.7:42 PMAnd I appreciate that. and I don't have to have negotiations done out here in front of the board. I was just concerned that it was something that was and when I say structural, I mean as far as an idea of how to put more buses up there, not necessarily contracts. I wanted to be sure that wasn't something that was being mssed. So I appreciate that and again, I want to echo the sentiment of not only myself, but Mr.Liccardo and everybody else that we understand this is a very difficult time and we are doing everything we can and I hope that no stone goes unturned as far as trying to figure ut a way to be sure that we limit the amount of people that get passed up and we get people to their jobs as quickly as possible. Thank you very much, I appreciate the answer. Thank you, chair.7:43 PMThank you. director montano?Thank you, chair. I too have great concerns of people being assed up. I mean, it's unconscionable atually. I think we as a board need o prioritize this and making sure that we find solutions to this. So, I heard that we are passing up 600 to 800 people per day and there was also a slide that was shown earlier that saidexploring every opportunity to service our clients. So have we really explored every opportunity? I don't know. So how are we going to make it so that these folks don't get passed up. On a message for staff, are we using all of our buses on our fleets?7:44 PMYes, we are.Okay. and I was also wondering, o many counties have already gone to the yellow tier from my understanding. I was thinking that we can write a letter to the county's board of supervisors to encourage going into that tier, that yellow tier. And also or even if not that, going from six feet to three feet, because I think even that will make difference in people not being bypassed. So those are some of my thoughts and also, it's going to get worse, i'm telling you right now because schools are opening up and if we are still in this change. Schools are already opening up and as you know schools are not required to provide transportation. So they depend on vta. So, there has to be a plan and i'm not sure if the plan has been made for when the schools open up as well. Those are my thoughts and i'm hoping the board will reallyensure that we can speed this up and come up with some solutions. Thank you.7:46 PMChair hendricks.. thank you, next is director burt.Thank you, so I appreciate 3 the struggles that staff and includg the drives o# drivers have gone through as we've had this constant set of uncertainties and fluctuations and echoing what this pandemic has affected but I haven't heard any plans for the future. It seems slightly we are going in the cusp of going into yellow tier and our transmission rate is now essentially amongst the lowest in the country, and theimpacts of the high vaccination levels in our county are accumulating. So, I first would like to ask where is our plan for where we go from here, where we are expected to go, acknowledging that we a certainty on the timing and we don't have a certainty on the actions but we certainly should have a sense of the direction on the near horizon with certain caveats.7:47 PMSo that's a great question. our number one goal here is to get back to the 100% prepandemic service level and that service network will look very similar to the plan we implemented in 2018 which had fantastic success and we want get back to that network and in the future, the way it will work is staff will develop a service plan for each calendar year and in the plan for each year, we develop that plan and comes to thecommunities and the board for adoption.7:48 PMMy question is focused on a much nearer term. What our plan is for likely scenarios in the coming weeks and the transitions that seem likely in the coming weeks. And one of the questions I would have is first what's our current vaccination rate amongst drivers drivers?7:49 PMDoes someone want to take the vaccination question? I don't know the answer to that.I'm going to ask sylvester to provide those numbers.As of today, we have a total of 982 operators, at least 375 have been artially vaccinated which is one percent and 249 of our operators are fully evacuated which is 25. 36%. So countywide, we are about 72%vaccinated, so I don't understand why our drivers are at a lower vaccinated rate than the county as a whole and second, what's the legal guidance on what government agencies can impose in terms ofvaccinations requirements.7:51 PMI really cannot talk to the outcome and the legal aspect, but I do know that vaccination is not mandated.Vta has not mandated the vaccination and does not have the authority to my knowledge to getvaccinations. With this guidance and a lot of support with the collective bargaining and the union has been incredibly supportive of our airports, we have reached out to our members and employees and have the lower terms of our employees.Do we know why our employees are getting vaccinated t a lower rate than the county despite these proactive efforts and expert accommodations to get vaccinated?7:52 PMThat's a very good question. we are trying to call up that data and encourage people to get vaccinated and hopefully will raise thnew numbers.Please explain to me. ou are saying we are looking into that in a few weeks?Yes, why are they not willing to get vaccinated because as it stands right now, pretty much anyone who has the opportunity to get the vaccine does have the ability to get it. We are encouraging folks to getevacuated and we don't understand why there is still that high level of resistance to getting vaccinated.7:53 PMI understand the intention of the survey. A couple questions, one, given the pass p issue being so critical, it's our drivers that we need, seems that we need to focus on as the highest priority for being evacuated and understanding why that's not happening. And I guess I don't understand why it's going o take so long to do an employee survey. With today's technology, that's not very complicated. So, can you share with us why this is weeks out and as opposed to already having been accomplished?7:54 PMYeah, I think I probably different clarify what I said initially uite well. I said the initial intent was to solve it a couple weeks ago before that cyberattack that shutdown the e-mail system, that's one and second, as our operators who are blue collar employees driving our buses and moving our passengers as needed. So most of our service with our perators has to be face-to-face kind of solving and data gathering. It's not typically done through the traditional e-mail system that can be deployed out to the administrative staff relatively easy.7:55 PMI can't think of anything more important than understand how to get our drivers vaccinated with all the issues we are talking about today and this whole pass up and returning back to normal service. I would like to understand what it's going to take for us to ramp this up. Get survey results, have the union take a fullresponsibility in collaboration on these survey results. Get this data quickly and then lastly, I do who still want to see if our legal staff has understanding of the current status of authority and ikely scenarios for whether government agencies can require folks in critical service jobs to be # vaccinated at a certain point in time in the near future.7:56 PMEvelyn, you had your hand up to respond to that.Yes, thank you, chair. the vaccinations were approved by an emergency order so therefore we can't legallyrequire vaccinations to return to work. That's one. And do want to comment on the statistics that we have.Those numbers come from one, those who went through the dedicated line through the county facility, right? Because we had to make sure that they were vta employees. We were able to track that. We were able to track those who voluntarily provided that information and reported that they had been vaccinated but for those that were vaccinated hrough their own health care provider and for whatever reason they are too busy or choose not to share that information, we wouldn't have that. So the numbers could be higher, but we just don't have a complete picture. I do want to say and take this opportunity to say that john courtney, regardless of differences in other areas, the vaccination issue, trying to rally the troops and getting folks to get vaccinated, he's done a tremendous job in trying to get atu members out and to getvaccinated. I think that was one of the most cooperative and coordinated effort that I have seen here at vta. And I don't want to lose sight of that.7:58 PMThe number of percentages of workers that were vaccinated, is that we had out of the total workers or drivers that we had for response and we know how many that have been vaccinated or you are saying we had a limited number that responded and that's the number that is chosen to respond to the question?The numbers are those that we have because we hysically know they were there and vaccinated because they went through the dedicated line and those reporting. Those two numbers together.Does that mean that there very well May be a number of workers who have been vaccinated and we don't know the number?That's correct. we don't know what that number is.All right. and I appreciate the issue that you raised on the limitations under the emergency use authorization from the fda. That is also something that May be lifted and given a full authorization in the near future. So I want to just make sure that we are having scenario and contingency planning that we are ready to move aggressively as things change as the distancing changes, and I ask this because those clients haven't been shared with us as a board, and there is, in this whole crisis, there is anunderstandable tendency to be reactive and even retrospective as opposed to proactive. It's hard to be proactive but we haven't heard in a scenario of planning of with an it might be in the coming weeks and how to respond and what the results we hope will be with the understanding that there emains a great deal of uncertainty.8:00 PMChair hendricks.. thank you. i'm going to director chavez and before you speak, here is a number of the public who are raising their hands to speak and public comment is already closed.Thank you. there is a imit to whatever information we have. That's the first thing. The second thing I want to comment is that i'm not sure I share the same understanding of the staff that the temporary barriers are as the permanent ones. And one thing I will just point out is a number of agencies around the bay area had permanent classic infrastructure in their vehicles and have had it for years and were relatively new to on boarding that equipment. The other thing I wanted to mention is that there has been an on going concern and not by the way, not just with our buses but with other buses around how you deal with air filtration and not negatively impact the operations of the vehicles and if and when we were going to put in ultraviolet light into the vehicles. All of that has been discussed or in process. I'm really excited to hear that the permanent barriers are going to be available at the end of the calendar year and I know westarted to order them when the whole country was ordering them which put us at a disadvantage. A couple things that I just want to acknowledge, one is that we, for full disclosure, the county health officers are available to our staff and I know they have been working together and speaking. I will say that one thing that I just anted to acknowledge is that June 15th is around the corner and at that time, I don't exactly know everything that the governor is going to be doing, but my belief is that he's going to remove the colored chart about what's open and where and that's probably will have exception but that timeline iscoming up relatively quickly. I do appreciate that the county and vta and atu are going to need to continue to talk to wrestle some of these issues to the ground. I will make an observation and that is that I know this is agendaized so I will save my comments for closed session, but two things that I just want to highlight, I think one is that the idea around how we can be more rigorous with training is one that I just, Ireally just can't emphasize enough how important that's going to be for our future, and two, I just want to acknowledge that one of the points that jay raised about the opportunity to have more sign ups, you know,i'm going to be very interested in better understanding how that helps our overall performance and really want to encourage the staff as we are making some of these changes to highlight some of the changes that are being made so we might better understand which are making the long-term impacts for improvingour overall service and what you are thinking about the county and some of our own agencies is that there are some things that we have learned that we have to keep doing and there are some things with covid-19 that we don't want to necessarily keep doing but some we want to keep doing. As an example, for themeetings but the ability for people who are not able to get to meeting locations and having meetings like this and keeping them hybrid, I would put that under the future issues that we are hoping to be ready torespond to as in person and what does a hybrid meeting look like and how can the public keep engaging us in a way that is most comfortable or them. I have other thoughts and comments but I will save them for closed session because I think that is really the most appropriate place to have them. Thank you.8:04 PMOkay, I see montano, burt and chavez with their hands up. I see them autopsy go -- all go down. I just want to make a comment. I think the pass up is an important issue and I want to make sure we are having the correct discussion with our health officer and I don't want to get into an arguing match with them.We've got to arguably a more difficult job with what we are dealing with but I would like to know that we are in contact so as soon as possible we are able to change the social distancing rules, it seems to me that is a relatively quick situation to happen for us and the impact on the pass up issue that's going on and there are multiple vectors to be looking at. I'm going to close this section with no hands raised.8:05 PMI have one.8:06 PMI'm sorry. i'm sorry to grab the jaws of victory as you were ready to move on. I want to thank both our interim general manager and cfo and came in a very difficult time and I appreciate what both of them have done. I can't help but feel compelled by comments that director burt made. We can solve this problem if people are vaccinated and we can move to a capacity level that will help with these pass ups and I knowthere is the solution with a lot of money but that won't solve the problem and e have structural deficits and we have to find the best straightest line for this solution. So i'm hopeful between those two efforts between the capacity and buses and vaccinations and we can get to this solution as soon as possible. Thank you.8:07 PMThank you, director montano?Thank you, chair, I can't eh eh opening situation and I hope - that more of our employees will get vaccinated and I want to ask the county board of supervisors if we can go from six feet to 3 feet. I think we are already in the orange tier because people are being passed up everyday and at the very least, we should push for that.If I could, chair. let me just say that we are going to be having this conversation tomorrow at 8:15 again.So just so you know, this isn't an idle conversation nd we both and I don't think the question is wrong but we can solve them through the interim as well as solving long-term and that is something I really want to keep my eye on and sam reminded me about this and evelyn and kathleen. Just gratitude, really.8:08 PMChair hendricks.. okay, i'm going to move on and we are going to talk about how we are going to deal with meetings going forward and the concept of hybrid which is what everybody wants to find a way and therules and what they allow us to do and what agencies want to do and what the technology is capable of doing because there is some difficulty with being able to do hybrid meetings and some factors around that and I have been working with the executive staff here on thinking about how that might happen. So it's not that we are completely behind the eight ball here. So i'm going to declare victory as sam pointed out here and we are going to end item 8. 1. I'm going to 8. 2 and that is chairperson's report and I have no chairperson's report today's. So we are going to item 8. 3 which are items of concern and referral to the administration. Does any of my colleagues have anything they would like to share? Sam is your hand up like before?8:10 PMI'm sorry, my bad.I'm going to Mr. Simitian if you have something?No, chair. thank you. I will submit my questions later.Thank you. does anyone have any announcements? I will just go ahead and shout out because it was mentioned earlier, the santa teresa light-rail station, there is the ability to get vaccine shots and there are appointments and walk ups and I also want to highlight that this is an access point for anybody who is near any light rail to be able to get to the area there to be able to get a vaccine from where the light-rail station is to where the tents are which is less than 100 yards from people eing able to get vaccines. That's the end of 8. 4 announcements.8:11 PMNo. 9, we are going into closed session now. We are going to be discussing items 9. 1a, b, and d and we are going to have an action on that item when we come back. Is there public comments on this item? Do we have any speakers for closed session.8:12 PMWe have roland.Public speaker: i'm going to be speaking on a, b, c. On a, this is I can't believe that you are waiting. This is unconscionable. And b, for the last few years, you have been dealing with the investigation from phase 1 from $2 billion to $5 billion to include $1 billion in debt service. D, what I heard earlier was a final straw.How anybody can stoop low enough to tell the drivers not to push the button to save bandwidth and would like to add this to a future meeting and would like to add to a severe mitigation to exposure to upcoming.8:13 PMOkay, thank you.Chair? public speaker: yeah, beak man. I'm sorry the way I started the meeting today and it's 3 applicable with the new general manager and I think I can have a great relationship with her. I think i'm learning how to support her to be a full-time general manager. And bout the issues of your ybersecurity thing, cybersecurity really can be a process available to everyone and that's a future we are all trying to learn, Ithink. For the people who did these things to ourselves, there is nothing but inhibits good practices and good services and they can learn things about open public policy of future ideas of public democracy and have peace.8:14 PMThank you, I think that was the last of our public speakers for closed session. To my colleagues, the closedsession team link is available to you. Board members, please be sure you mute your video and microphone during closed session session. You don't need to log off with our current session.9:35 PMRecording was Paused9:36 PMWith that, we are going to adjourn to our closed session now. Thank you.>Chair hendricks.. we are returning from closed session.9:37 PMI will provide he report for closed session item 9. 1a, no reportable action. The general manager will provide a closed session reports on item 91b and 91 dFor those items, there was no reportable action taken.Thank you. now item 9.4. 9. 4. Action item - approve an acting pay salary increase for evelynn tran for theduration of her assignment as vta general counsel and interim general manager/ceo. I'm going to get the officer to give us a briefing.9:38 PMThank you, chair. full recall when nuria fernandez announced she was leaving to join the biden administration, vta had to get a replacement for nuria almost immediately. The board appointed evelyn tran by general counsel coupled with her broad knowledge of vta operations. Her discussions ofcompensation was not discussed. Today's request is for the board to approve an acting position for evelyn tran for her capacity compliant with vta plicy. Vta guidelines allows this and the board's authority to approve this inquiry and because of the effective performance of her duty. Typically a pay is 10% orgreater. The average compensation for general manager is based on the salary that we conducted was 331 annually at the time. This is 27% above the current salary of evelyn tran. This is the recommendation tothe board. So essentially approve the pay increase for ms. Tran for her duration of the interim role. Once approved this will be effective January 2021 when she directly ascended into her position. That concludes my brief presentation.9:39 PMThank you. i'm going to the members of the public and a member of the public said that somehow taking care of this and we've been having discussions we have listen about this and there was not an urgent need for her to have this done immediately at the time and she knew it would be taken care of. Before I go to my colleagues, I want to see if there are any public members to speak on this topic. I see that we have one hand up. Board secretary, please let our public speakers speak.9:40 PMThank you, Mr. Chair. roland, you ay begin speaking when you are ready. Public speaker:Thank you, chair. you know, I really appreciate evelyn but I will reiterate as far as what happened here is not acceptable and make sure it doesn't happen again and I would like the board to study any possibility of getting to the vta administrative goals and putting some rules in there that will say this will not everhappen again. Thank you.9:41 PMThank you. i'm not seeing any other public speakers. So i'm going to close the public section of this.Thank you, chair. I would like to make a motion that evelyn be compensated at the level of $331,000.Second, chavez, chappie and jones. So there is a motion and multiple seconds that were done right there.Is there anybody who would like to speak on this motion? I will be prepared to once you are done, but anybody want to make any comments? I'm not seeing anything. I just want to go ahead and state that I believe and I believe i'm speaking for the board that evelyn is doing a fantastic job in this interim role of stepping in to be the ceo and general manager for us here at vta, that even in a normal time, you know, stepping into that position in interim role would be difficult, challenging and we are in covid and many many other things that have occurring here and ms. Tran has been doing an absolutely fantastic job in keeping us steered forward, eye on the ball and focused on things that need to be addressed. I think this isa very correct and proper thing for us to do. Any colleagues have anything they would like to share or add?With that, elaine, would you please do a vote of us?9:43 PMBurt?Yes.Carrasco?Yes.Chavez?Yes.Constantine?Aye.Jimenez?Aye.Liccardo?Aye.St. paul?Yes.Simitian? no.Jones?Yes. hendricks?Yes.Motion passes with 11-1.Thank you for all the work that you have been doing in your role and we expect to continue with the great job that you are doing. I'm not seeing anything else. I think we are at item 10. The adjournment. I'm going to go ahead and I will adjourn in just a second. I just want to go ahead and remind or let people know that our next board meeting will be the first Thursday in june. I will not be attending that boardmeeting. I am not able to make it there. Board member jones will be running the next board meeting. With that, our meeting is adjourned at 9:44.