Aa(reading)... proclamation.5:40 PMAaron, martin, normally # -- noel and herman. Thank you for your service.Now we will go to the video.>5:41 PM> I was on mute.I think I see everyone. one second. Big smile, everyone. Chair hendricks: before we move on, I would like to express the board's gratitude to aaron, martin and noel and herman. You have shown to the community what you can give back to the community. Thank you for your support. Thanks.Can I ask how many years total?56 years.That sounds like a lifetime and we really do appreciate your support and help through all of this.5:48 PMThank you guys and the staff and members of the and it's exhausting and we have told you why we need to have hazard pay and it's fallen on deaf ears. We are here to do good to others, what the others are herefor, I don't know.5:49 PMThank you.Thank you.Did you have a chance to speak?Yes, I did have a chance to speak.Thank you.Kirk? go ahead. public speaker: yes, i'm a witness to and victim of the mass shooting. I am the only employee that left my secure area to try to put a stop to cassidy. This happened on your watch, each of you are responsible to some degree. It happened under the failed policy of nuria fernandez who failed to over see properly, but that's behind us. I am here today to tell each of you that it's pastime that this board investigates the department of power and signals and that the employees and the department asked what was wrong that pushed cassidy to kill my friends.5:50 PMTo look at the managers that are so incompetent and these managers and supervisors are still employed.And nobody has asked what's happened.Chair hendricks: let's give the peaker another two minutes to finish his comments. You can keep going.5:51 PMI think he's dropped off.Okay.Next we have stephanie followed by blair and tammy.> stephanie, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: hi,Can you hear me?Yes.The fact that we have to ask for hazard retro pay is appalling. We are the frontline workers in this county.We ask that you give us what you need to do. Thank you.5:52 PMBlair, please go ahead when you are ready.Hi,Blair beakman, there is good guidelines for those looking to achieve stability. Good luck to our good fforts this far. And good luck in the process. Thank you.Tammy, please go ahead when you are ready.5:53 PMPublic speaker: hello, i'm tammy, i'm a 10 year employee at vta and work at the technology department who fear retaliation. They have given me signatures and I will also e-mail to the board. This is about the hostile environment they are experiencing in this department. They have been subjected to fear and tactics and harassment. This needs to be investigated by a third party investigator. It's common knowledge that at vta the complaints to office of civil rights does not go anywhere. As board members, every time you refer this back to staff without a third party oversight you literally llow the hostile work environment to be our culture and that is not acceptable.5:54 PMPlease go ahead.Can you hear me?Yes.This is aliceo 265. it's time for vta to pony up. From day one, we have not been classified as essential workers, frontline workers until we lost our brothers. We were not able to hide behind omputer screens.We were given a thin mask and thrown out to sanitize bus stops, buses, being harassed by the public. It was stated to my face that I was out spreading the covid-19. It's time for vta to pony up and give us what is due to u. Enact that retro act azard pay. Do what is right. We did not get the opportunity to sit behind acomputer desk.5:55 PMChair hendricks: anita, before you go on, I know we said we were not going to take anymore public speakers, but let's give people a chance to speak.5:56 PMWe had one more that just dropped in that last second. Hernandez.Let's go ahead and have that. public speaker: hello, from day one, this has not stopped. My fellow brothers and sisters took care. It took vta months to set aside any kind of protective measures and I use that termprotective very lightly. Our union local 265 provided masks and gloves. The cdc states this, the way the virus spreads from respiratory droplets through coughs and also the surface that May have the virus in it.We drive giant petri dishes everyday.5:57 PMPublic speaker: hi,Can you hear me?Yes.Hi, i'm nathan, from local 265. I represent those who were lost in the tragedy and I have met personally.We need to address this and let's start with change in the culture. I believe communication is key. Atu reached out over the last month over the signal division members asking for changes so they don't have to return to the same work environment. They want to return but afraid under the same conditions. Listening to these workers will create a healthy culture. We want to go back but please do it in a safe and responsible way and not look the other way any longer. Thank you.5:58 PMOscar castro, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, members of the board, oscar castro, proud to stand alongside our union workers here in support of retroactive hazard pay for our essential workers and this is long over due and also a potential source f receive to make this a feasibleinitiative. As I said, this is long over due and we need to look at the ell-being of these workers who put themselves on the frontline throughout this pandemic. Thank you very much for your time.5:59 PMMilton bradley? public speaker:Can you hear me?Yes.I'm also speaking for the hazard pay for the essential workers. I'm a past bus driver and the trained cars being surrounded by the mass quantities of the general public, extremely hazardous. In addition, as a maintainer, we are out there in the public. We deal with clean up and vomit and feces and urine. This is regular all week-long and we are in a closed environment in elevators and restrooms. Thank you.6:00 PMHis is john.I changed his name.This pandemic will be able to recognize the importance of the jobs vta employees do and the hazards they face everyday. You are not just recognizing the workers that faces the hazard of being exposed. You are also recognizing the husbands, wives, children and grandparents and entire families that are at risk by their loved ones by just going to work. To recognize these workers, means more than just to bring home a few extra dollars. I would like to thank everyone and the families for going through stress of the unknown and possibility of infection and sickness and even death.6:01 PMWade, go ahead when you are ready.6:02 PMOkay, we'll move on to alicia. Public speaker: local 265 here. I agree with a lot of my coworkers. Out of everyone that was shutting down during covid-19, a lot of people were opting out to stay home. It wasvery traumatic and scary to think that the virus could kill you or your family member. I was one of the 16 operators who actually continued to go to work on a daily basis because i'm a single mother and I didn't ave an option but to take care of my children. This is not something I can run from. I was out there taking communities to work, I was just working around-the-clock when other people had the option of stayinghome and working off their computers and just staying home.6:03 PMEric? please go ahead. public speaker: good evening, board, my name is eric chavez, a work investment coordinator for the labor management partnership between atu and vta. Retro hazard pay should be granted to our workers and in reference to our fallen nine and especially during code, please do the rightthing. Thank you for listening.6:04 PMTessa, please go ahead when you are ready.Thank you.We have to look at all the crisis that everybody is experiencing and this is the ignoring of the issues that are facing us, the climate crisis at work lobal feeling that we are experiencing and all the pain and suffering and covid is just one last part of it. It's capitalism hat exploits people and nature for profit and it's been going on and it goes back to the board that has been corrupt and that the civil grand jury has said the board is corrupt. What it boils down to is they are not listening, we are not listening and dealing with so much public defender -- pain and suffering and we are not listening. This is the roost and time to bear.6:05 PMTonya, please go ahead when you are ready. Can you accept the unmute? Okay, we'll try her in a moment.Hello?Yes, go ahead, we hear you.Public speaker: i'm sorry, i'm a local atu member, a transit operator. During this whole pandemic we have been in a struggle with your management being at home and operating our lives behind the screen. Youdon't have to deal with the people who have to get to work and counting numbers that don't make sense when you have given us orders to have the number of people on the bus and you don't do anything for them. I'm for hazard pay, a structure for people not for management. We are more than just theoperators.6:06 PMNathaniel? public speaker:6:07 PMCan you hear me?Yes.My name is nathaniel from the atu union and I support 100% retro hazard pay or my brothers and sisters.They are telling you they are sacrificing coming to work, putting their lives in danger and putting their family members and loved ones at risk. I can tell you as the coordinator coordinator hearing firsthand from my brothers and sisters after that mass shooting, and the least you can show with your actions is that they deserve hazard pay, put your words mo, let's your actions correspond.Chair hendricks: anita, I think we are getting close to the end. It looks like we had the last one but let's do daniel and wade. I did a last call multiple times.6:08 PMYes, our last speakers are hernandez, daniel a wade. Please accept the unmute. O ahead. Public speaker: hello?Yes, we can hear you.Okay.Yes, good evening. when it comes to hazard pay, there shouldn't be a question. It should not be why but why not? We didn't sign up for assaults, threats and virus and being treated not like number but humans. I believe you can make this a reality. You are working from home. And we had to deal with this mass shooting. After all, we are a family at vta. We shouldn't have to ask you to do the right thing. Thank you very much for your time. . Public speaker: hi, my name is daniel. What I haven't heard is has anybody collected the number of abuse and attacks that the drivers have had to deal with in the last year 1/2 and they are still riding the bus. Not everyone has a home to go to during this time and we deal with a lot of drug addicts and alcoholics nd in general unrul unrulely public. There are many that have gone to the hospital and things like that. Hank you.6:10 PM>Public speaker: my name is wade camp at light power and signal. I definitely am n favor of the hazard pay.We were in the trenches when everybody else was behind their computer screens and/or even at home.Also, with that tragic day, I did lose friends, and I really really strongly urge the board to reconsider and -- the management that is in that building by putting them back there, we are not going to feel we are goingto have a safe work environment mentally and physically and I just don't want this to happen again. I'm just, ike I said, i'm pleading with the board, please, make the right decision and make it right. Thank you.6:11 PMChair hendricks: anita, was that everyone?Yes, that concludes our public speakers.6:12 PMOkay, i'm going to close the public section right now. Before I move forward, board member wanted to say something.Please, I would like to be recorded on item 2. 1.Yes, we'll note it.Thank you.Now to item 4.1. 4. 1. Action item - adopt a resolution: (1) affirming that the vta board, subsequent to a public hearing, has made a finding that the proposed ' 2021 financing plan' to be undertaken by the peninsula corridor joint powers board (pcjpb) will result in significant public benefits and serve a public purpose; and (2) approving the proposed financing, including (a) the issuance by pcjpb of up to $140million of caltrain measure rr sales tax revenue bonds to fund certain capital costs and, (b) authorization to refund up to all of the 2019 farebox revenue bonds whenever there is appropriate economic benefit.Michael smith is going to be reporting on this item.6:13 PMMichael, the floor is yourself.Thank you. I will just say that these are routine items when caltrain need to enter into financing project and will not increase the cost. With that, we'll open the public hearing. I don't know f you will do that or I will do that.We'll jointly open the public hearing.Okay, works for me.Ladies and gentlemen, the joint peninsula powers board can comprised of the city and county of san francisco and the san mateo district and valley transportation authority to agree to the sale of bonds tofund the portion of the capital cost with the portion of succeeding the corridor electrification project. This isthrough the expected revenue service and to pay for certain transaction costs. The jppb also intends to resell the bonds and that sale will be achieved. The bonds will be secured and paid by the $0. 01 sales tax in the city and county of san francisco, san mateo county, santa clara county as approved by voters November 23, 2020 known as measure rr. Pursuant to the california government code t joint exercise powers agency joint powers board May not take up financing to finance capital improvement unless the member of the joint powers agency within whose boundaries within the capital improvement is located has approved the financing and made a finding of a significant benefit and public hearing held by such member agendas. This hearing is being conducted pursuant the a noticed published July 17, 2021 in santa claracounty and in order to satisfy the government code. As noticed, we will now hear from individuals wish to go express their views in the finance of the capital improvement fund. With that, we should take publiccomment.6:16 PMChair hendricks: thank you. now I will open officially the public hearing. Are there any members wishing toaddress this item?I see some raised hands. we have public comment.We have tessa.Surprising that you said insignificant. That is true, it is insignificant, there is no public benefit. Regarding the caltrain that are ax dollars from our consumer. I consider it blood on our hands because we should stop consuming as much as we are. These very critical money that are going to support caltrain. I am in favor of it because I think caltrain electrification is important, however, tissue of bart going to santa clara and redundancy there will undermine the viability of caltrain to have that redundancy and all the insignificant public benefits. The risk that we have taken to what we are doing with bart, there were safety concernsand we ignored those for economic gain.6:17 PMNext we have roland.Public speaker: thank you. I'm going for the approval but on the condition there is oversight with caltrain and we could end up with $3 million overrun. A couple months ago there was a $15 million change over because of the contract and yesterday, the same approved another 25 position. Thank you.6:18 PMBefore we go to the next speaker, elaine has her hand up. Did you want to share something?Yes, chair. I apologize, the word insignificant that the public speaker had mention is actually a typo, there should be a space between in and significant. I apologize for that. We will make that correction.Thank you.Mr. Bateman, here. thank you for this item. The joint powers board and the work of caltrain, they have been doing some interesting budget work and it been neat. They are someone we can be trusting. I think they gave really good advice and ideas about how to address when covid first started arriving how we address our budget issues and how we work with subsidy ideas and how we cut certain programs and build other things and caltrain was good at this and vta was also good at this. I hope we learn good lessons andgreat work with the effort. A reminder, we May have a natural disaster preparedness to consider in our planning for this measure and all measure b measures coming up. It's important to include this planning in our measure b practice. Thank you.6:20 PMThat concludes our public speakers.Chair hendricks.. i'm going to close the public comment period and also want to say that our cfo is here to answer any questions and now to my colleagues for questions or comments?I would move approval. this is cindy.Thank you very much. I was going to ask to get a motion and second o close the hearing and adopt the resolution.Second.Motion by chavez, second by constantine. Elaine, would you please vote us.6:21 PMClerk: [roll call]Thank you, motion passed.Thank you. i'm moving on to the next item.Resolution as required by california government code 4217. 12, energy conservation contracts, that: (1) determines that the energy service agreement and contracts are in the best interest of the santa clara valley transportation authority (vta), (2) finds that the anticipated cost to vta for electrical energy orconservation services provided by the energy storage systems (ess) facilities under the agreement and contracts will be less than the anticipated marginal cost to vta of electrical energy that would have been consumed by vta in the absence of the agreement and contracts, and (3) authorizes the general manageror designee to enter into an agreement and two ten-year energy service contracts with stem, inc. , for two ess facilities at cerone bus division in san jose and north bus division in mountain view.6:22 PMChristina, our environmental planner is going to present this.Good evening. this is christina, this is for the two energy storage divisions at the center. Each party received a $2. 625 million grant from the california public utilities commission for these two storage energy systems. These two storage systems will provide 800 kilowatts of storage to reduce vta's electricity cost and provide other benefits under these divisions. They were to design, procure and install and maintain the energy storage systems in exchange for the share of the cost. There is no cost to vta. As part of this grant, these storage systems need to be operational by June 2022, and august for north and the and the agreement of the contract is for ten years. Vta is anticipated to save 10 a year by charging the energy storage and systems when the energy is high and content is low. This will also benefit vta by providing additional backup power and additional revenue from grid services and allow these divisions to use more ofthe solar generated energy on-site. This last slide is according to this item. Vta May enter into a contract with stem if the board makes the determination that they are able to enter into the contract with notice and for electricity under the contract will be less under the anticipated marginal cost at the electricity that would have been consumed under the absence of those contracts. The notice of the hearing was published on July 21st, at least two weeks before this meeting. This contract is in the best interest of vta because of the positions vta to meet the scheduled requirements f the s chip grant to maximize the benefits tominimize the cost of the project and is projected to have lower electricity cost, $60,000 per year. In addition, their resiliency and benefits from the system. This concludes my presentation.6:26 PMChristina, thank you for that concise report. I am now going to open this item to the public. Would anyone like to make any comments?Public speaker: she doesn't really explain where these powers are coming from. Supposedly all of these board members are really good at transportation and council. I don't know how it's done and that's why we need a full-time board for vta because I don't understand what they are talking about. And in the one minute presentation she gave us. Just like the bloom, in the city of san jose, the corrupt politicians being corrupt. We went from bloom that runs out of natural gas. I don't know what kind of energy that you aretalking about. Pg & e is corrupt too. They are starting our ires and we can't say that giving them energy isgreen it's not. Our energy has to be local. Solar powered. Public speaker: blair bateman here, it's really a nice report from tessa. This is really good stuff for our vta future and what I was waiting to talk about all summer basically and hopeful for it. Since the city of san jose and their air community plan hey have fallen a bit behind and a bit lost. Look to east bay community energy. They are practicing really great renewable energy ideas that are really remarkable and straight forward. This is what we need to go back to this. We don't need to go back to fossil fuel use. Don't fall into that trap.6:28 PMI will now close public comment.We will go to my colleagues for comment.I'm sorry, we have one more public comment.I'm sorry, I didn't see that.That concludes our public speakers.6:29 PMGreat. I will go back to my colleagues for questions. Member chavez.I would like to move approval and then I have a comment.This is to close the public hearing.Motion by chavez and second by constantine.Yes, i'm very interested in us looking at starting to move out our use of generators. I'm excited about this and I don't think we've gotten a report back on our strategy to stop using diesel generators for the backupthroughout our organization. That's a reminder to get a report back on that and this is great work and thanks for moving quickly.6:30 PM> okay, thanks. is there any other comments by my colleagues?Elaine, could you do the vote?I'm sorry, I didn't see who seconded it.6:31 PMIt was chavez and constant constantine.[roll call]It passed. thank you.We are moving on to 4.3.Intention to adopt resolutions of necessity action item - close hearing and adopt resolutions of necessitydetermining that the public interest and necessity require the acquisition of two (2) properties located in the city of san jose owned by the following property owners: (1) richard della maggiore and joan della maggiore November 13, 1991 and the loren w. Thorson and arlethea k. Thorson trust dated august 18, 1982; and (2) honco investment company, llc, california limited liability company, successor in interest to honco investment company, l. P. , a california limited partnership for vta's bart silicon valley phase ii project. Ron will present this item. Ron will provide a presentation for this property nd I will open the public hearing. Property owners will be given five minutes to speak and then will be given one minute to speak after the property owners ave spoken.6:32 PMBefore I start, the complete record is in the packet. I will make comments as we go along. The presentation to highlight certain key items. For the resolution necessity hearing, the purpose is to address the four requirements for property acquisition. Those four requirements are the within that the public interest necessitate the project and the plan located will be most compatible with the most good and least injury. And the third part is this resolution is necessary for the project and just compensation has been made to the fair market value. I will note the subject of price or compensation is not a subject for this hearing. To provide context, this map shows the route of the bart phase 2 extension alignment. Both of these parcels are near the station and they will make-up the bart facilities. We discussed in the prior meeting the bart phase 2 requirements, these two parcels constitute in large part of the acquisition for this program. Before I talk about the individual parcels, I would like to also provide some additional context about the project need. If you can bear with me for one moment.6:34 PMI trust the graphic is on the screen?We can see it.Great. this is the project, what you see in this graphic, in terms of layers is first of all, we need the entire property for the construction staging area to build the project. This entire area is needed for contractor todo this construction and without this area, there would be a greater cost and greater risk for this project in the area. What you see in yellow is the equipment area and staging area and moving area going throughthe site. The second layer of information then regards to the permanent facility as the bart station andassociated facilities. This includes the bart station to the lower right to the areas. This includes the adjacent transit area. It includes an 800 space parking structure. Includes 400 parking spaces from the parking structure on 28th street as well as ancillary facilities. This uses most of the area except for the area in the upper right by the lane. The third element of the project need which relates to theenvironmental project and vta has adopted transient oriented adopted policy will use the area in the upper right corner as well as parking spaces consistent with vta's policy. These projects will essentially take these four spaces of the project to accomplish the todd. Finally, I wanted to correct for the administrative record that the design is an update of what we are working for and to revise our plans based on the other parties and this represents where we are currently. With that, I will go back to the presentation.6:37 PMSo the first parcel is parcel b 3709 in san jose. The area I highlighted in yellow which constitutes the boundaries of the next two parcels. So this property, the owner as noted through the living trust with other parties. As I mentioned the project need is for the three purposes described. The acquisition will be the fee interest of the entire property. An offer was made December 16, 2020 and we have not been able to reachagreement ith the owners. Next parcel is parcel b 3110, 1350 east saint james street, 125, 129, 130, north 30th street. We only need a portion of the parcel. The cross area is the right of james street. We do not require the parcel that is to the left or north of east saint james street towards julianne. As noted before, this property is owned by the investment company. The property is industrial. There are a couple of operating businesses in the area. The size is approximately 408,000 square feet. And the necessary interest is the entire property. An offer was made December 17th, it's 2020. And we have not been able to reach agreement with the owners. Finally, before we open this up for discussion, I would like to ask general counsel transcript 3 statement for the administrative record. Record.6:39 PMWe have received ome letters from the property owners. I want to respond to those letters. The request for this transit is for focusing growth around the station capitalizes public investments in transit andprovides many benefits including increased ridership and associated revenue gains for transit systems and engagement and reassessment and revitalization of neighborhoods. Vta May exercise the power of eminent domain to inquire any property necessary for convenience to exercise the powers granted to it, and vta has been granted the power to engage in transient oriented development. The todd was cleared under california environmental quality act. He letter referenced this morning relate to the project as defined in the environmental document pursuant to mepa. Further, as to the compensation, the issue of highest best use is the component of the valuation of the property for purpose of determining just compensation except the amount of compensation is not one of the findings that this board needs to make in order to adopt aresolution of necessity. The statute requires that vta make an offer that is not less than the appraised value and vta has complied with that requirement. Thank you.6:42 PMThank you. this concludes the presentation.Now I will open up for comment by the property owner.I do have glen.Is he for the property owner?Yes.Hello, are you able to hear me?Good evening, I am glen block, eminent domain counselor for the property owner and tenants of the sizable portion of the property here. As we have submitted letters of objection, i'm not going to rehash thedetails but I will briefly summarize the monarch center's objections for adoption of necessity and then I will allow the owners of the business, nicole and tony to share their thoughts. I hope the board will allow to listen to their thoughts. Monarch refuses the adoption because vta refuses to make the just compensation.The findings cannot find that a just offer was made. And we know under the eminent domain law, the vta must pay just compensation for the property taken. It's guaranteed by the california and federalconstitutions. As acknowledged just compensation means fair market value for the property taken. Yet here, we have to raise this objection because instead of offering fair market value, the vta is in a positionthat they can offer only pennies, 'unquote salvage value for tennant improvements to allow it to operate itssuccessful large business, computer networking for 60 employees, utility infrastructure that supports 25truck repair bays, lifts, security systems, etc. Those are not work $1,000 as the vta suggests. It's worth tens of thousands of dollars, hundreds of thousands of dollars. The vta must make a fair and just offer. And we will hold until that offer is made. I will turn it over to nicole and tony next. Thank you.6:45 PMWe are at two minutes remaining for the next speaker.Nicole, I will start you first. Please go ahead when you are ready.Can you hear me?Yes.Good evening, members. my name is ncole, from the truck center. We are a family business that my father started 45 years ago and he took a chance raising two small kids by starting this rental and leasing ome that is the biggest in the region with over 60 employees. Most of whom have work for us for over 16 years.I'm here as a leader of monarch to be sure we are successful and continue on into the future for my family, for my employees and their family. I am here to ask the board for a fair and legal treatment during thisproject which is not what we have received from the vta. If you can please turn it over to my husband tony.6:46 PMTony, please go ahead and accept the unmute and begin talking when you are ready.Public speaker: thank you very much, board, are you able to hear me?Yes.I also want to explain a little bit more about what we do. As nicole mentioned, we have a medium duty truck dealership and provide services and rentals. We provide medium duty truck and commercial truckservices to multiple, thousands and thousands of businesses across the bay area. If you take into consideration the amount of commerce we support for all of our customers and vendors, it's not in the billions. It would be a significant blow to the economy if the bay area would lose monarch. Thank you6:48 PMI think that speaks for the owners of b 3109. ' now I will take it to the next speakers for item b 3110.I don't see anyone, chair.We are going to close the public comment section then. We'll go to any members of the public that May want to speak and then back to my colleagues. Member chavez, is your hand upWe have two public speakers. tessa followed by roland. Tessa, please begin when you are ready. Public speaker: the public good that we say that bart is going to provide for the cmmunity, and the one thing I wanted to read was the most interesting news t most recent news that study warns that irreversibletransition of currents that will rapidly freeze this area and about the freeze in new york. And this is well intentioned plans that we have to think we know what we are doing. What we really have to have is acritical evaluation of all that we are doing and how it's really reducing our reenhouse gasses to zero and we are not doing that and we are saying there is net 0 and all of this bs.6:49 PMRoland, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: thank yu, it's unfortunate to hear about thisparking business that needs to be relocated. And this kind of approach and the property owner offered to do something different whereby the developer will do something different and the two examples of this inlondon where there is an $8 million station and where homes from $200 million and built homes above the station. They were way past the 017 london 2 station and expanded and unfortunately the opportunity was denied. Thank you.6:50 PMMr. Bateman, please go ahead when you are ready.6:51 PMPublic speaker: hi, thank you. For this issue and the future of high-speed rail issues and in the eminent domain issues, it sounds like the people of monarch trucking have a good case. I just hope with goodpractices can be followed with good negotiation ideas. You know, with this issue and with the future of the high-speed rail, you know, it's eminent domain issues, it's important to create a good standard of goodnegotiation and trust and people are not going to be ripped off basically. And that they can get top dollar for what they are giving up. That's what it seems like to me and how to peak about these sort of issues.It's embarrassing to speak about it. Thank you very much for your time.That concludes our public speakers.6:52 PMThanks. i'm going to close the public speaker ection of this and come back to my colleagues. Are there any thoughts, comments or questions?Member constantine?Thank you. can the staff talk about how vta acquired these properties?Sure. as part of the project, what you heard from one of our tenants, vta offers from the intent from california law to provide to businesses that are new. That is when we are identifying the parcels makinginitial contacts with the owners and we have met with the owners, met with them on-site and have gone through a process with our relocation consultant who is part of the team to conduct an appraisal with values as elements and other compensation to assist with the real location. That's the basis forestablishing the fair market value. As you heard from the discussion, there is a disagreement about the price which is not a subject of this hearing.6:53 PMThank you.In regards to this location, is it just monetary and/or a suitable location?It's both. we will help them find a location and provide assistance between this place and the and the new place and we have obligations for improvements relative to the businesses that are eligible. This is the lawsthat it covers and we followed all the requirements for providing that assistance.6:54 PMThank you.Thank you.It is in regard to your question and about the process and how we make an offer. So typically what we would have the property appraised. That appraisal goes through a secondary review. It goes through a peer review. And then it goes to the fta for concurrence and fta reviews it before we make the offer. Theoffer cannot be lower than the an appraised value.6:55 PMI was going to say t would be illegal for us to offer anything below the fair market value, correct?That's correct.Thank you, chair. .Thank you. member liccardo?Thank you, just a couple questions with regard to comments we heard from members of the community.I'm assuming that honko is the landlord?That's correct. honko is the owner of the property and monarch is their tenant.When we pay just compensation, we cut separate checks to each for the loss of property interest?That's correct.The property owner, obviously was the real property nterest being acquired. With the tenants that need to be relocated, we are offering compensation for the relocation cost as well as the cost of the property.6:56 PMDoes it include the value of their tenancy?I'm not sure what you mean?If they cover a dollar a square foot and now $2 a square foot and they have to find somewhere else.The question in my confusion was, the leasehold has value potentially to be able to sublease it and that's not relevant and the property has been taken over, but if the new location is much higher than they are paying, we are required to provide assistance for that property.Okay, this is not a consideration for us. In other words we don't have any basis or jurisdiction for changing the numbers in this proceeding, is that fair to sy? This is just about the resolution of necessity?6:57 PMThat's correct. compensation is not a subject of this hearing.Ultimately that gets hashed out if not between the parties, the courts will find its value, is that correct?And I will say, we do our appraisals and owners ill do their appraisal and that's why it's in this process and we are committed to one, meeting our terms of law and the requirements whether or we are successful and we are committed to working through this process.6:58 PMI was going to all on them.I can wait.Just about the timing. the tennant could have some considerable amount of time I assume for consideration since we are not boring a tunnel tomorrow.The time and consideration is here is that we actually need to mobilize on the construction earlier because we have to make it available for excavation and if there is additional details, the project director will speak.But essentially the tunnelling in this area is a covered tunnel. In addition to that, the station facility is being excavated from the surface, and to your point earlier, is that one of the things we have to do is we have to relocate the tenants before the property is available for construction. This is not just a time line forproperty acquisition but the timeline location and that will begin when the property acquisition will begin. I will say with respect to schedule, this is an action that we do need to proceed with at this time if we are to maintain the bart schedule.6:59 PMIf my office is helpful to find sites in san jose, we will be able to help. Thank you.Next to our general counsel.Just a couple comments about value ating as far as the reality and they are valued per the reality they have. That's what's being valued and that is different from what is being offered to the property owner. In addition, they also have the ability to bring with a we call a loss of business goodwill claim -- and we would assist in helping them find a new location to the extent that there is a loss in the business goodwill as a result of either the new location. They would be able to make a claim against vta for that. And the last point I wanted to make in regard to the lease that you were mentioning if they got a really sweet dealyears ago, they can also bring a bonus rent type of claim to vta. There are various ways of compensating the tenant.7:01 PMThank you.Member liccardo, did you have anything else?No, thank you.Thank you.Are there any other questions from my colleagues? Is there a will of my colleagues? Is there a motion to be made here?I will make a motion to close the hearing and adopt the resolutions of necessity for the property no. B 3109, and b 3110.Is there a second?Second, chavez.Thank you. motion by john, second by chavez. Any other questions by my colleagues?7:02 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]I would like to record a es vote to this as well. On the last item I was having difficulty with my phone.Noted.Motion passes unanimously. thank you.Thank you.5. 1. Citizens advisory committee (cac) chairperson's report. (verbal report) (swaminathan)7:03 PMHi. the big news from our last meeting as you know for the period of fy2020, the 2008 measure tax dollars were spent according to this measure. We have the report in 2000 measure a. They are all letter squished together. This report is pretty valuable and we are hopeful, in fact encouraging that you would share this with your constituents because this is a lot of tax dollars raised and gone to a lot of good purposes and we should be proud of what we have done. We did earlier today, but you did honor 51 years of combined service for some members who are pretty much founding members of the citizens advisory committee who are now leaving us which leaves me with a last thought that we have a significant number of memberopenings. We are actively recruiting new members and need people who are hardworking committed into the mission of what vta is. They can represent business, labor, transit users, we need people from all walksand all corners of the county. Just as I would like to ask that you advertise our report on measure a, I would encourage each of you to think about people within your districts or your cities that May be suitableto serve on the citizens advisory committee. If I have my numbers right, we are six members short and three applicants that we are reviewing right now. Any help that you can provide would be very muchappreciated. That's what I have. Thank you.7:05 PMThank you very much howard. it's nice to see you again. There are no reports for 5. 3, 5. 4.Cair, we have some speakers for item no. 5.Oh, I forget my script.Tessa, go ahead.We have to look at how these funds are being used and we are not going to 0. Lot of the decision making for measure b and extension of bart phase, the second extension of bart was all about jobs and economic growth. What we have to do is degrowth. That needs to be part of the mo of the bart as well that we donot need another maintenance yard in beautiful santa clara. It's in hayward and we should leave it in hayward and the whole bart at diridon. It should just come down and go to diridon would be enough.7:06 PMThank you.Public speaker: roland, the document is locked and it's difficult to make copies of the document so e maybe able to share with your constituents. It's actually a screen shot of the document. If that could befixed, that would be much appreciated. Now, as you will see later on and now with the finding of thecommittee that measure a was properly allocated nd you will see the problems with the allocations for multiple projects. Thank you.7:07 PMMr. Bateman, go ahead.Thank you for the cac report and basically all the work that the cac does. I think we worked hard in the past few years to be sure we retain a certain integrity of the cac and it isn't just an extension of thebusiness community. That is an extension of kind of a more organic sensibility for community. I think we made that decision a few years ago. I hope in choosing new board persons, that thinking can continue. You know, at the beginning of covid and through the May crisis, you know, it was the cac, those were the nlymeetings that kept continuing and which I think really says something to ourselves, what we trust and what we like and appreciate in this life. We count on the cac in times of trouble. So let's keep it a goodorganic process. Thank you.7:08 PMThat concludes or public speakers.7:09 PM> that concludes our public speakers for item 5. Now we'll go to the consent agenda. For colleagues, whowould like to speak on an item on consent or pull an tem from the consent calendar? I'm not seeing any.Are there any abstentions or recusals from my colleagues? again, no mad rush. I'm going to our speakers for the consent agenda.We have two speakers. Mr. Bateman, go ahead. public speaker: thank you. I guess you had a joint powerscommittee meeting, thank you. And thank you that you had four bod meetings through June and july. To conclude, there was an item that you are going to have, the eastridge to bart extension thing. That sounds really interesting as a project, there is micro grid technology involved and harging stations involved. I guess that's the future of the charging station issue that I think as a whole community, we can really rallyaround. That's what can be a positive future for vta and for all parties involved. I hope -- with these renewable ideas, not using diesel can be awesome for charging stations. So good luck in how you decide those things. This is our good stuff. Thanks.7:10 PMRoland, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: this is not defined properly because this area is going to have this mound over it and moving forward, I think we can expect to be seeing more of the same. Thank you.7:11 PMTessa? public speaker: the vta has declared a climate emergency and we could not deny the boardmembers, glen. We have to talk to, we need bus rapid transit between palo alto.Are you speaking on the consent calendar, which item are you addressing?I'm addressing the whole plan of vta and where our moneys are going and how the whole operation is going and i'm saying overall the consent needs to come from the science and what we should doing. That needs to not be personal like I don't like electric buses and I want car infrastructure. We need to be able to looking at our fossil fuel and needs to be 0 and all of that needs to be based on that than personal desires.We are not doing that and we need to have it looked at that way.7:12 PMThat concludes our public speakers.I will now close the public hearing. I will ask members to please keep their comments to the direct items we are addressing.7:13 PMWe have a motion and second.Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes. thank you.Thank you. that takes us to our regular agenda. Which is item . 1. 7. 1. Action item - 1. Augment the 2016 measure b program fiscal years 2022 and 2023 biennial budget by $29. 35 million with allocations thatcover the following four 2016 measure b need/capacity-based program categories: a) bart phase ii, b) caltrain corridor capacity improvements, c) county expressways, and d) sr 85 corridor. (requires affirmativevote of 2/3 of the board or 8 members) 2. Approve the 2016 measure b 10-year program (fy 2022 to2031) for the same four categories listed above, as well as for the three formula-based programs that arealready in the fy 2022/2023 biennial budgets: a) local streets & roads, b) bicycle & pedestrian, and c) transit operations. Additionally, approve the projected annual program administration costs as part of the 10-year program.7:14 PMThe full program is on our screen. Kathleen will cover the entire program.Thank you. it looks like we wrote that long motion just to torment you.I will present one of two items related to the program. This 1st item covers the recommendations for the biennial budget and the program of projects. As a reminder because it seems like a long time ago but onlylast spring, the board approves the rinciples of the biennial budget and the ten year program allocations for measure b i'm not going through all of those principles but because we are discussing the allocations tothe program tonight, I want to draw to your attention in bold which concerns the capacity needs of the program. This principal states that these projects will be included n the program based on projectreadiness criteria which the board approved earlier this year as well as on project prioritization processes to each program and also must identify each program consistent with the bart program and all specifics in the ballot measure. Here you see the nine categories that are included in the 2016 measure b. On the left side of the page formula based programs and the board will be approved budget allocations for theseprograms in june. The focus tonight is on the first four programs on the right side and we are requesting your approval for the recommendations of the budget and the ten year program for each of those fourcategories. We are not yet ready to present recommendations for projects in the final two categories, the caltrain grade separation and the highway interchanges, but we anticipate bringing recommendations to the board and December for those programs and we have a plan to get there. There is a projectprioritization process underway as we speak on the caltrain grade separation and the three cities are close to reaching consensus on how to allocate those funds. On the next item on your agenda tonight concernsrecommended process for the highway interchange program and your approval of that item we can complete the entire process in december. In the future, the board can consider the budget allocations and program projects for all measure b projects as part of the regular budget process. There are wo parts to the recommendations tonight first the allocation to the biennial budget and later the program of projects.Let's first talk about the biennial budget. This slide is a reminder to the board of what you approved in June for the formula based programs and those total about $172 million. Next slide. This slideshows the recommended amounts to the biennial budget to the needs capacity program that are ready now. As you can see of these four categories, only the capacity improvements have requested an allocation in the next two years for a total of 29 million. The other three programs do not need funding now, but will request funds in future budget cycles. We don't know what the request will be for the final two programs but we expect to know these amounts by the next calendar year. This slide just combines the previous two slides and shows that with your approval tonight of the recommendations to augment the biennial budget thetotal measure b allocation to date will be a total of $201 million. Now that I have discussed the biennial budget request, let's move to the development and removal of the first project beginning with fiscal year 22 and ending with fiscal year 23. Tonight we are requesting that you approve the ten year program for all of the categories cpap cpap -- except for the last two. It's important to remember the significance of the ten year program is to give us a look ahead of what is anticipated to be coming down the pike. However, the ten year program will be updated every wo years in conjunction with the biennial budget cycle and at that time there will be changes with the revenue estimates and the cost to the capital projects. This slideshows us the ten year plan that we have to date. This is for your consideration. To make sure that we are all on the same age literally, I want to walk quickly through the chart. On the top you seeadministrative costs which are very straight forward. The next row show the estimated cost of bond issuance. It doesn't how the total amount of borrowing including the principle because it shows the project cost. I will come back in a minute to talk about how we generated those financing figures. Below that are the nine programs we already discussed, provided in the formula based programs and the need capacity based programs. Now looking at the columns on the chart, you will see the first column shows thepercentages for each of the programs as they were included in the ballot measure. Next to that, is the column showing the allocation that have been made in prior years or each of the programs. The next two columns in the darker color reflect the amounts that were requested in the biennial budget, you will seethose in the previous pages, again, excluding the changes and the highway changes. The white column show the projected allocation for 2021 excluding the last programs. In addition to the expenditures during this ten year period, the purpose of this exercise is to look at the financing impacts of these expenditures on the full 30 year programs and see how that impacts program spending. To estimate the level of bondissuance cost associated with this ten year plan, we took the project cost for the allocation of the grade and the highway interchanges and we took the dollars -- dollar options for the funding scenario. Fort-worthformula programs, we maintained for all 30 years. For the caltrain and highway interchanges since we don't have allocations for those programs, we assumed a very aggressive scenario and we assumed thatallocations in both of those programs will be fully funded in the next five years. We know that can't happen in reality but it shows the worse case scenario. When we have the projected allocations in december, we will plug those in and rerun the odel that will result in a lower level of debt and financing costs. For theremaining programs, what is not spent in the ten years will get spent out later in the program. For the bart, the budget reflects the amount in the allocation and those result in a slightly lower of program taxrevenues than shown in the ballot. Hat doesn't mean or suggest that we'll actually under spend the percentages in the budget but it gives us comfort that the current must be will be for the measure bfunding. So that is slightly under the estimated revenues. That's about $8 billion. You May remember that in the ballot measure there was talk about $6. 3 billion, but that was in $2,017 and these are n year of expenditures and that's why there is a difference. This slide provides a little bit more information about theprojected revenues over the 30 year loss and we can see the projected program tax revenues total about $8. 16 billion. Here is the road maps for the next steps. We are here in august to ask that you add to the budget of the improvements and adopt the ten year plan that we have shown to date. Later this year in december, staff requests the augmentation to accommodate the request that come from the last two programs and ask to approve a ten year plan to finish this process. This needs a vote of eight boardmembers. This is the summary of actions that we are asking to you approve this evening and I won't try to repeat them all again. Thank you very much.7:24 PMKathleen, thank you very much for that report. Let's go to our public speakers then to my colleagues.We have three public speakers. Tessa? Public speaker: we are not following science and yes, we can reduce by 50%, that is a little bit more than eight years from now. What has been approved by many voices says what it looks like 50% reduction in fossil fuel use is no driving, no flying, and no goods. Here were in our budget decision of highways and now with our cars and building and electric cars. The cement of all of our roads. It would be the third large # producer of c02.7:26 PMRoland, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: I would like to go to part 6 with bart phase 2, $0 requested because after the mass murder, there were approved $1 million and everything left after that. Now moving on to caltrain, the $29 million, that was about as much fun as extracting a wisdom tooth but there we are and now the devil is in the details. And that was for improvement. And the otherexpansion project, first of all, the only thing that is expanding is -- and secondly our $0 for measure b. All that comes from measure a, last, the caltrain survey --7:27 PMBlair bateman, with the caltrain separation, [lost connection]Blair, I think you muted yourself.Sorry, i'm back. can I start again.They started the clock, keep going.Awesome, I need to start again, I will go from the beginning here, hank you. With road repair issue, withgrade separation for caltrain issues, there is a real concern about the future of how do we talk about that in terms of natural disaster preparedness and why we are innovative county where we can talk about thesethings openly and publicly. Thank you. There are a lot of ideas about the sustainable ideas. Let's look at that stuff and practice that stuff.7:28 PMThank you. i'm going close the public hearing section. I will go to my colleagues for thoughts or questions.Member constantine?Thank you, chair. in regard to the corridor capacity, in the $25 million, did they give a break down to the expenditures for each of the criteria within the caltrain corridor capacity improvements?7:29 PMYes, I would like to have marchela rovide the information with that rquest?I don't have that information.Thank you very much for that. i'm sorry, I caught you flat footed. The three things i'm concerned of the five are the things that should have been completed prior to the fiscal year 2022/2023. Those specifically are the electrification expansion project which i'm assuming is the electrification from san francisco to san jose and the expansion of caltrain to gilroy and refurbishment of diesel that was tied because until we could get the location -- locomotive -- for this ask of 2020.7:30 PMThat I can address. you are correct, the board had allocated funding and that funding is still available to caltrain and they are working on it. The electrification you see here used to be called calmod 2 for the electrification project. The fourth train is the actual continuation of service throughout the period. And the last one is refurbishment of additional cars of location locomotives --7:31 PMIs caltrain saying they needed to refurbish train cars before locomotives to gilroy?No, this is not for adding that fourth train. What it's needed for continued and increased service as morevehicles reach the end of the useful life.I understand what you are saying and I appreciate that. Thank you very much. I'm not sure I understand that because and this is not on you, I wish there were representatives from caltrain to answer thisquestion. The discussion to bring the extra train to gilroy was for the locomotives and for the trains going through colorado that are electrified that there would be extra diesel cars vailable to bring service to gilroy.I am very hesitant to vote for this part of the budget because it doesn't give a clear indication of where that $29 million is going. I appreciate the report. Thanks, chair.7:33 PMChair hendricks.. thank you. is there anyone else that would like to ake a comment or question about this?If there are no comments or questions --So moved. liccardo.Second.Moved by liccardo, second by jones. If there are no more comments or questions, elaine, can you do roll call.I believe member paul has his hand up too.I had a question about sr 85. I think it's slide 8.7:34 PMSo, am looking at these allocations and seems that across all of these programs, the allocations, if there is a higher year in one year, you know, it gets offset and vice versa, most of them are pretty even across the board with the exception of the corridor. I'm wondering what is the issue here, is it just a lack ofconsideration, how do we go about justifying this so severely ten years into it?If I May address that.The sr 85 corridor is based on a single project and that project is currently in the early development stage.So hat you are seeing in the early years is funding for the environmental phase going through design and those are relatively low dollar items, and they do take a couple years a piece particularly for a project of this magnitude. Then you see the larger dollar amounts when it hits construction. The current project timeline that you are seeing in 89. The other categories with other multiple projects that are in different stages and that's reflected in and to me they look a ittle choppy to be honest. That's your not seeing thatprogression from very small to very large at the end.7:35 PMI would just register my objection to this. I'm inclined to vote against based solely on this. Because the history of this allocation is that certain areas of our county were underserved quite a bit when it came to the transit equation.7:36 PMIt does seem that would be now with this funding. With all respect, it just doesn't sit that well looking a t this and wondering what might happen in the interim and a gargantuan percentage is allocated to this.Chair, hendricks, if could address that?Go ahead.I just wanted to be clear that the numbers that are in here are based on requests from the project sponsors and then what we did is we evaluated the readiness based on the criteria that you all approved earlier. What martiala is saying, in this cycle it's just not ready to allocate the funding to it any earlier. It doesn't meet the readiness criteria. Thank you.7:37 PM> you know, I can accept that and I feel the way this has been divvied out is tailor-made to allocate the funding and I understand there is a study but we are not getting reported at all to see how that is going and I know there is push backs with regard to what we do with the media and sr 85 from my perspective and I think a lot of people would be nice to have this transit. In the next two years there is no funding what so ever and then it will trickle in and maybe to something that is appreciable. I look at this and see a formula tailor-made to find a way to reallocate this. Frankly, it doesn't sit that well. Thank you.7:39 PMBefore we go to member bert, do you have something to sad to this?Yes, this project has been underway for a considerable period of time. There is an sr 85 corridor committee that has been meeting regularly in the last three years and have come to a conclusion on a project.Member, paul, I think it's more on us and I mean that committee and please don't think it's us slowing down this manner.7:40 PMIs there anything that can be done to allocate funding for essentially before another six years lapses. This committee can go on for another 6 years and we can look at this and throw up our hands and we May have spent for this allocation and there is something that we can do on something that doesn't begin on one end and just one side of the county. This needs to be countywide. If we can take the $200 million to completely back load it in the last two years and reallocate it in somewhat more even manner over the course of the prior six years, I think that's not too much to ask for. At the end of the day, when you look at measure b, a lot of the extra support came in rom the west valley because of the promise of this allocation and this allocation is being pushed back a decade. There is no other way to put it.7:41 PMMr. Lawson, before you respond, is this more of a question with your committee to trying to get maybe some extra fire lit. They are going to be able to make decisions to go ahead and redo that reallocation and we have an opportunity to look at the reallocations every ten years, is that correct?7:42 PMYes, the project is underway and we can look at how to prioritize the money.This should be agendaized and we can have that discussion with the board.Bert, did you have anything else?I would be fully supportive of that. If we can -- if we can allocate some of that money that's at the very end of the decade. This is starting in fiscal 18 and it will be 28. Are we able the revisit this in the nextcouple of cycles or are we pretty much setting up --7:43 PMWe are able to revisit this every two years.Every two yars. we are basically stuck. I'm not proposing that we look at this for the next couple years butthere is no funding whatsoever allocated in fiscal year 22 and 23.There is other non-measure b money that is allocated towards that.Right. I think I have made my point.7:44 PMMember bert?Thank you. first I had shared what member constantine raised on the uses of the calmod funding and that was before hearing his specific concerns based on the capacity improvements in the south county that he has been focused on. But, e haven't been able to get any clarifications this evening. We do have vta board members are any of them able to provide us with information on what this allocation is directed toward?I don't have the details right in front of me that you are looking for or that rich was talking about.7:45 PMF we can't get that clarification this evening, i'm not assuming and it's not something I would object to. It's a sum amount of money and for this program and would we be able to split this item from the balance of the approval or defer the whole package until the next meeting would be the one question. And with director paul's concern, it's every two years that we revisit this plan and that is the question would we be more able to respond to these evolving conditions and a lay the concerns of board members if we had an annual update as a big part of our capital expenditures as an organization?7:46 PMI have a couple of comments. I think marchela has come up with more research and then we can respond to questions.Great. actually I was going to cede my time to jane chen.Is jane here?I am, good evening. talking about what was mentioned before, is the services are for the operating cost that are done on on an annual basis and formally known as the calmod, the measure b matching share ofadditional use to support the service and again this would be matching and other funding sources. Then finally, the question regarding the vehicles. It would be to -- it would be a part of the project refurbishrefurbishment. Diesel train cars primarily used for gilroy service. I will not sure if that's sufficient enough for you.7:48 PMThat certainly helps. I was aware that caltrain was moving forward with a next set of bmu's necessary for their full utilization of the electrified system. So that made sense that that would be a good portion of this and it would be our matching share. That helped, thank you. My other question whether an annual report would be appropriate and what the thoughts of colleagues are on that?7:49 PMIf I could suggest, I would think hat certainly we can bring annual understand on this as it's going through the process itself. I know two years seems like a long time but it's pretty quick and since we are a little bit delayed in the process this year we'll be looking at this a little again over the year. It might be that you will get an annual update and only if there is something major that you would redo the program that is the bond issuance and that kind of thing. I'm not sure that you will see things that frequently. If they change in the out years, it's not a major thing. It's the first two years where you have the budget and those are usually pretty well known in lenty of time to be able to allocate those funds in the biennial budget.7:50 PMMember simitian?Yes, I want to register an aye vote on the motion and that was after I exerted to our board to fill in the blanks to the ten year funding program in part to that scenario from last year. I would like to say to colleagues and member liccardo, our whole board voted unanimously in June and with staff and communityhave come in a long way of filling in those blanks and assuaging those concerns. Even when I tell myself, when I take a yes or no here, I want to take yes as an answer and I think it might be providing somereassurance to say can we have a one year report back on the sr 85 corridor status just to make sure hat that issue doesn't get lost for a period as long as two years. So I will ask the chair if I May if that's a friendly amendment that the maker and seconded would be amenable to.7:51 PMTo sam and the seconder, I think we are going to get some action faster than that. Is that acceptable to you?7:52 PMYes, that is acceptable to me.I'm fine too.Thank you to the maker and the seconder. I'm delighted. And the highway interchange column coming soon to a board meeting. Thank you for the acceptance of the friendly amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chair.I'm not seeing anybody else.Chair?Can we vote on the recommendation separately. It's the 1 and 2?The first one is on the budget and the second is the ten year program.7:53 PMThe motion on the floor right now is for both.Chair, a friendly amendment, I would breakup the items 1 and 2 in the staff report.I'm fine bifurcating.Let me restate the motion, item 1, restateing the program and tem 2, the budget abdominal indicating the program for eeds capacity based programs. Is that correct?Are you okay with that?That's fine.Yes.7:54 PMSo everybody understand that elaine,Roll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Where is the direction on the sr 85 budget? Is that this motion or next motion?That would be the next one.Okay, I will vote no on this one.7:55 PMPaul no.Motion passed with 10 ayes and 2 nos.Sam, do you want to cover the second part of the motion?Okay, the rest of the item.With the added piece that we try and return the exact words but coming back within a year for the sr 85 review piece.Yes, agree. thank you for reminding me.Is there a second?Second.Are there any comments or questions on this motion? I sea non # -- see none.I would like to comment. I will abstain on this. I think the allocations are strictly lopsided. That doesn't mean no, but it's a wait and see to see what happens. Thanks.7:56 PMYeah, I would just say really what we need to do is go ahead and get to that committee to make sure it accelerates and that funding criteria line can meet the criteria for moving the funds forward as might beneeded. Seeing no other questions or comments, elaine,7:57 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]Motion passes with 11 ayes and 1 abstention.We are going to move to 7.2.I think it was the reference for the September timeline and we were going o look at this in May and we got delayed somewhat which I understand and we've gotten to a very good place where we are making progress on nailing down the ten year plan tonight, but I would like to make sure we get it done this year.And December is cutting it a little bit close. So be sure we can get a comment on that. At that would leave the information in the powerpoint as well.7:58 PMYes, I think that's correct. did you want to add to that?It's really dependent on the next approval. The caltrain grade separation seems to be moving along to bring them back in September to look at this item here and we feel fairly confident with your approvaltonight we can bring this back and that will close out the ten year program for measure b.7:59 PMThank you, and I will be happy to make that motion, Mr. Chair.Okay, I believe it's jane or martiala taking this one.This is martiala. again as kathleen stated, this is the only need capacity based program without a prioritization process t this time. We worked very closely with the technical advisory ad hoc committee thatdevoted quite a bit of time into this. The criteria are specific to the highway projects. We are not looking to expand them beyond this program. And the three project readiness criteria and the status report. So, as might remember from the big chart on the big item, we are not starting on a clean slate on the highway program and we have made progress and they have 22 projects all in various stages of development. So inorder to keep prior investments, let me just cut to the chase. What we are proposing here is projects with approved allocations we are not distributeing the funds right now. We are proposing to grandfathering it in.The reason behind that is at this point a lot of funding has been invested into that project and to stop itnow would risk losing that. Whereas if we is to the an earlier age, the amount is not that high. And it was to treat it separately and always envisioned to be its own program and the plan is to come back to you this year with a set of criteria just for that. So if we can move to the next slide, please. So I mentioned thatthere were a number of projects that had already been unded and that they were in various stages.Actually i'm going to start from the bottom because those are our success stories. They are the projects that have been completed. In blue, these are the ones we are propose to go grandfather. They are wrapping up design and getting ready to go into construction. To fully fund those projects in constructionwe are looking at $109 million which will leave a substantial funding in the program for the other projects that we'll be competing under this criteria. Here we've mapped out the projects and they are numberedand color coded and you can see where your favorite project is and they are throughout the county. These are the proposed criteria and the scoring associated with them. You can see that we had some diversity opinion as we went through the advisory committees. The staff's recommendation is the same as the taxrecommendation, the b pac is proposing an alternative and the cac did not have that proposal. The congested management is with the highest point and that is the only criteria that is called out in the ballot measure itself. What you will see here is the proposed maximum number of points, projects are evaluated on how ell they do against the criteria. T's not an all or nothing scale. And these are the elements that we would be looking for in the project sponsors description. Safety hich wasn't discussed previously by the board came up by the ad hoc in detail and we are recommending a high number of points for it. The next few criteria are ones that the board had discussed in some form. We are proposing 10 points a piece for them. He basis for equity was to start with doing no harm and then trying to do good. A geographicbalance. We are really looking at where projects are located in the county as well as the projects sponsor priority towards them. Climate considerations. This seems a little odd in a highway program category.These are all interchange projects. So there is a lot of complete streets infrastructure associated with them and bicycle and pedestrian improvement improvements. In fact the projects underway now as most ofthese are anticipated to and that's one of the thing we are looking for under this criteria. Finally the last one is measure b contribution is a distillation of the costeffectiveness discussion that the board has had.What we are looking at is the amount of investment that the measure b program is putting into the the b project. Some of these have a substantial amount of outside funding and relatively small amount withmeasure b might be buying a lot of project. So the next steps, we are asking for your approval of criterionand the process tonight and direction to go ahead and apply them. With that, we'll be able to convene a scoring committee once we have the applications to score them and bring back a project priority list in ranked order and from that proposed both an update to the biennial budget and the program allocatioallocation. This is spelled out. This concludes my presentation. I'm available for questions.8:07 PMWe'll go to our public speakers first.Yes, we have received public comment from the public and it's submitted into the portal. Our first three speakers will be Mr. Bateman.8:08 PMPublic speaker: hi, bateman here. Measure b issues with highway things. You know, with the last item with such large amounts of money being talked about, it was my idea with so much issue of subsidy with upstale with such a massive degree lately, maybe these numbers have something to do with more reflexes on the kind of budget you actually use but you don't share in meeting spaces or what you haven't before. I don't know how accurate that can be but it's a new budget that we are talking about. Thank you for your patience on this item.8:09 PMPublic speaker: hi.Can you hear me? ?Yes. we can.We mothers of silicon valley are against any extension project. The parents and staff have made it very clear to us that any proposals are undesirable with risk of increased cancer and asthma will cause additional trips to the hospital. Three lanes by the school is extremely hazardous. This is a social equity issue. This project wouldn't happen in arlington. This is deemed only 17 second per car trip according to the data. The money needs to be going to alternative transit and dedicated transit lanes and traffic signals.Thank you.8:10 PMPublic speaker: hello, my name is monica, a concerned prent. I want to ask vta to reject this as this project would be a physical and emotional impact to our students and residents. The 17 seconds as the previous person mention aved for that commute that the former council member stated that it's not worth our students lives nor to the residents. Due to the last year and months that our orchard residents have endured, I hope they can start august 12th, school day, without this worry.8:11 PMNext speaker, please. public speaker: my name is aaron mccarthy, the teachers association from the same school monica just spoke about. I would like to you lower the riority of or deprioritize the ly over right behind our school campus. This project is not wanted by our community and quite frankly it's dangerous to our students and detrimental to their health. I'm pretty sure there is a better place for $27 million. Thank you. Have a good night.8:12 PMGood evening, once again, board members. I am eugene bradley. I echo what some of the parents mentioned. That money should be used to improve bus lines like the 66 that would go to the elementary.Also, like light of us need to meet by the vta regarding other projects such as the 2016 measure b. I was reading in the old edition of the mercury news how palo alto and vta's importance on the need to achieve the traffic they would like to have. Just a thought. Thanks.8:13 PMOur last three speakers, roland, tessa and monica.Roland, please go ahead. public speaker: thank you. So I would like to address your attention to table slide 4 starting with line 1. To the chair, would it be helpful to understand how the city of san jose somehow managed to squeeze approximately $25 million of bike and ped of $3 million of the project and I also havemultiple questions to the connections to the highway 162, highway 25. My question to you is how is this going to work if we have this lane between morgan hill and highway 25. It would be basically asking for a fiasco. It is no longer sustainable. If you ask me how, just go in the evening on rush hour. Thank you.8:14 PMTessa, go ahead. public speaker: thank you so much. Yes. I think the measure b needs to be realigned.That is something that we have got to do. What is the expression, when you are in a hole you stop digging instead of saying, we have dug so much, we have to keep going. That is the abyss that we are facing andto be dealing with haze and climate change and puts in a little thing like bikes. Anyway, of course the bart, it's such a big elephant in the room in terms of our resources. We need to cut it back, we need to degrowth and have bart go to diridon is sufficient.8:15 PMMonica, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, this is monica melon speaking on behalfof the climate action and this project will increase both ent and emissions and put the health and safety of children at risk and the community will be harmed for pretty much no reason at all. I think with the fundsgoing to this project would be better used -- elsewhere and I think the money will be used in a more productive way. I'm not saying the money should be spent on san jose but i'm sure there are projects within the city of san jose that are more beneficial to the community. Thank you.8:16 PMChair hendricks: I think that was the last of our public speakers and close the public speaker section, and I will ask my colleagues for any questions. I'm not seeing any hands go up on this. Is there a will f ycolleagues?Who is first?Chappie, o ahead.Yes, I understand the projects hat are designed or already started construction, but for the projects that we prioritized who aren't at that point, once we prioritize those projects, is it locked in or are we going to have opportunities two years, five years down the road to reevaluate because as we discussed previously, things changed. Some projects become more relevant than others and I want to understand if there isgoing to be a process to reevaluate these projects?8:17 PMThat intent is to evaluate every project that comes forward wanting to proceed in the next two years and I do anticipate that is going to be the balance of the funding that's currently projected in the program.Should # -- the projects won't just be evaluated on their merits as in these criteria but also on theirproject readiness. So we will use that to populate the ten year plan. As you said, the project will plan out and how you see the project and the scope changed to how this needs to be evaluated or we ould havemore funds than we are anticipating be more successful in getting outside funding and at that point, we would be able to too a reevaluation of new projects and perhaps removal of ones that are no longer wanted. So is that already built into the process or is that something we need to give direction on?8:19 PMI think that is one of the things that you are revisiting with the biennial budget process to revisit this plan and consider tht - in the process and should be within the evaluation process with the next biennial cycle and cycle beyond that.Thank you. I just want to add clarity to what's buildable into the process. That's all I needed. Thank you.Member liccardo?8:20 PMThank you, chair. I appreciate the importance of having geographic balance to consideration, certainly north county, west county, south county, there should be a balance. Martiala, I appreciate you spending the time with me to discuss this. But i'm wondering how we get to this geographic balance. As I understand, i'm looking t pages 7. 2c, that section of the packet for folks online between pages 277 and278. Just to make it easier to scroll here. So there are two components. One is based on whether or not the project is listed within the first, second or third priority and different points for that. And then, there is a second component of that geographic balance and that relates to literally the distance between project. I just have two concerns and certainly anyone can say they are parochial, yes, I am the mayor of san jose. I want to be parochial for a moment. On one sense, the project is prioritized to local and cities and town, correct is this?8:21 PMCorrect.The problem is vta serves people, it doesn't serve jurisdictions. I appreciate the geographic balance, but the project for el sereno and san jose, will be scored differently on that basis. Our cities are not made equally, we serve a million more people than serine oh does and maybe the top project for the smallerjurisdiction. That's concern a that I have. The second concern that I have, is that there are projects that serve regional destinations of importance, for example, nternational airport or a bart station as we think 3about the mayberry 101. And those May well be the top priority for san jse, but they are really important to a lot of cities because we all depend on that airport or that bart station or that nfl stadium. So i'm a little concerned with how we are deciding what gets the score for the geographic balance. I have no problem that we have a geographic balance but I see a multi-jurisdictional project points. I'm not exactly sure how that point gets allocated but that's for projects that are close to a boundary line some where and May not define exactly what i'm getting at. So, can you help me understand. Is there a better way we can ensure geographic balance without clearly putting at a disadvantage those projects that serve critical regionaldestinations or facilities, and without, I think prejudicing the largest city in the region.8:23 PM> nice simple question.Yeah.I will just say that the staff and the ad hoc committees did spend a lot of time on this criterion and went through a number of iterations because it is a difficult one. We started with a very simple concept ofmaking sure that there was a dot in every portion of the map. But realized that f we developed ageographic balance criterion based on that, we ran into an interesting problem where adjacent cities by acting first would have their projects gain a geographic advantage over perhaps the project that came inlater in the program. So that's where the concept of adding some local priority came in. In terms of the regional destinations, those elements are actually addressed in the other criteria. Most notably, I think in the congestion management. So, there is a place to address that, but you are absolutely right. Is there another way to do geographic balance? Definitely. Sit -- is it better? I think it depends on who is asking thequestion. But jury staff both on the vta and your own city halls, did put a great deal of effort in trying to achieve the balance.8:25 PMAs you indicated, they expressed concerns to you as well.8:26 PMWhile we are talking, can the screen be scrolled back to the page that shows those numbers? I didn't mean to stop the conversation.That's okay. I will step back and let others speak and ponder while I listen.Next is member chavez. can we split this slide back to the numbers, please.Go ahead, cindy.Thank you. I want to go back. is this the one you wanted, glen?No.6.One of the issues that mayor liccardo hit on is the idea around one very important body of work that we have, actually and this is something supervisor simitian has raised a number of times and that is how we think about congestion management. And I mention that because to mayor liccardo's point, the way we think about congestion management regionally and then how you overlay the fact that you do want to share resources countywide since they are raised countywide, I do think that that is a really mportant conundrum for us because it's such a high priority for at least part of the organization and frankly a part of the organization that we don't spend as much time talking about as a board. So I do just want to concur what sam raised from a slightly different perspective but what sam raised as an issue. I had some time ago talked with mayor liccardo about this. But I am wondering what would happen given all of this criteria andthe like, if a community said, we really don't think we need this project, but we are very interested in y project. Because one of my concerns is that we actually in set people for a project ven if it's changedbecause that means the funding doesn't go to their community. I'm wondering if we thought about that incentive challenge?8:28 PMOne of the key elements of project readiness is community longer supportive of project, then it's failing the project ready readiness tab. Another things to keep in mind is the eligible projects are found in the measure if it still fits the scope in the measure, it's still eligible. But if it no longer does or something thatwasn't raised in the measure at all at this point we would not be able to entertain it. I'm not sure that addressed your question.8:29 PMAtually, you just reframed why this is so complex.Yes.And the reason is, I will just say that the project is a particular one that I don't understand its import and at the same time, I do think there are, just as a region when we think about protecting our tax base and the health of the economy, that region is really important especially as you get to north san jose. I would be interested in investments there but at the risk of losing that shortcut is the best to be done and thatwould be tough to unring that bell based on what you said. Thank you.8:30 PMChair hendricks.. I assume you got your comments in. I want to point out that it seems the criteria is thecongestion management safety. But congestion management should really be the driver of how we are looking at how this is going to be allocated. Member bert?8:31 PMThank you. so as I look at the difference between, the different recommendations, the pack has a much higher waiting towards environmental considerations and I don't know whether their number is correct or the best number, but in this era, as we look forward in the next one or more decades on the spend you are the -- expenditure of these funds on the way they are spending i'm not sure it's the way it should be goingforward. And wonder if colleagues would be tweaking the numbers and what is going on with the process and how to reconcile the recommendations and ultimately would be done with whoever makes the motionand I will liould like to put that the table as a process for folks to think about.8:32 PMOkay, i'm not seeing any other comments. Does anyone want to make a motion?I would like to make a motion to approve and accept staff's recommendation.8:33 PMIs there a second to that?I will second it.Second.We'll put sergio down at seconding it.Are there any other recommendations? Member liccardo.Talking about congestion management and the notion of regional facility or destination. I don't see that inthe language of the project scoring logic. Can you help me understand it better.8:34 PMRegional destinations are heavy tractor # and traffic generators.That traffic might be yeah, i'm thinking out lookout for example about bart.About surface streets?That would be a very good example for looking at the intent. That area was highly congested before the bart station and the additional where a regional tractor won't help in the future when ridership recovers.8:35 PMOkay, I hope it's somewhere in the top three. Thank you.> member simitian?Thanks. i'm going to support the motion. I found this discussion really helpful. Thank you, guys. I think martiala's clarification on regional destination to be essentially addressed by congestion management concerns is a legitimate one because as I listen to board member liccardo, I thought, okay, i'm workingthat one through, but if by definition it's a regional destination with traffic congestion, it should be coveredby congestion management and provided me reassurance as I think of large scale projects with my own portion of the county with events of stanford university. So i'm conferred by that clarification of staff. I also think the safety component and the congestion management component are inextricably inter woven andthere is congestion aggravation and that's there together. I think the congestion management and safety because they are really reinforced climate and congestion is even worse climate outcome than free flowingtraffic as much as we might wach there is to that free flowing traffic. I think there is no perfect balance, but i'm prepared to support the motion tonight and think it's a reasonable balance and again thanks to everybody who is trying to make sure we move a complete package of measure b identified items along.Thank you, chair.8:37 PMChair hendricks: i'm not seeing any other hands up. With that, elaine,8:38 PMRoll call, please.Clerk: [roll call]It passed with 10 ayes, 1 no.Thank you. we are going to take a break until 8:45. In the interest of time, I have been asked if we might want to consider pushing 7. 3 out and so. When we come back from our break, I will be interested if there is a motion to defer item 7. 3. With that, we'll take a seven minute break until 8:45. Thank you all. [break]8:45 PM> chair hendricks.. before we went to our break, I talked about deferring item 7. 3. This is in the interest of time because we also have closed session that we need to go to. I heard from staff stating it was okay to defer 7. 5. I would be interested to hear from my colleagues if anyone is interested in hearing 7. 3 and7. 5 at the next meeting?8:46 PMSo moved.Second.Second by jones. any omments from anyone?Elaine, do I need to hear from public comment?We have some hands up but I need to check on the next item.For the public speakers if you an put your hands down and back up if you want to speak on items I just mentioned.8:47 PMThis is 7.3 and 7.5.Let's see if there is public comment.> roland, please begin speaking when you are ready.Public speaker: yes, on 7. 5, this is becoming a series concern. You diverted funding in June and there is no where we are going and the spending is concerned and you are burning money and the rail investment is falling apart. At some point we need to have a real discussion about this project and how we move forward. Thank you.8:48 PMBlair bait man, thank you for for taking public comment. And want to speak about the bart issues that will be put off to the next board meeting. It was my understanding -- why that muted, I don't know. Why bart funding issues can be such a large, large package compared to the other measure b issues. Thank you for the work of nuria, the previous general manager fernandez about how to prioritize transportation needs.She was awesome in that department I felt and always will respect. Thank you.8:49 PMTessa, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you.Can you hear me?Yes.Good, thanks. I was just reading about palo alto as I was appreciating the palo alto member discussingclimate change. Thank you, palo alto member. Just seeing how there is a lot of attention in regards to the bart project which I was happy to hear because i'm having trouble with it too as it goes under the street that I live on and the large fans and whatever it is and how poorly the whole meetings were addressed in terms of brt, in terms of our community outreach was terrible and even the community support for the project being able to neighbors and complaints and the operations have been so weak and our neighbors don't want that going down the avenue with events. We need to look at what are the priority of reducingfossil fuel use and not one mile for a billion dollars.8:50 PMI think that was the last of our speakers.8:51 PMChair, this is elaine. I want to check with member paul because his hand is up and if that's for this item or he previous item.That was from the prior item actually.Thank you.Okay, thanks.So if you could go ahead and vote. This is to defer 7. 3 and 7. 5.8:52 PMClerk: [roll call]> motion passed thank you.Thank you, the next agenda is 7. 4.7. 4. Action item - authorize the general manager to issue a competitive request for offer (rfo) for the gilroy transit center affordable housing project in conjunction with the santa clara county office of supportive housing (osh) pursuant to the santa clara valley transportation authority (vta) -osh cost-sharing agreement for county measure a-funded transit-oriented development (tod). Ron is going to provide hereport.You have the floor.Thank you and also joining me is the manager. Before I dive into the details. I want to observe from manycomments submitted that this item has support and has raised considerable concern and you will hear on those. I just want to set the stage and context to start. Vta in addition to being the transit agency is also the congestion management agency for the county. We have a countywide perspective and a wide range ofprograms to try to reduce vehicle trips and the congestion it results. Vta statute authorizes us to introducetransit policies and authorized by the board of directors as transit development site. What I would like to do is provide some clarify the on this item that staff is presenting. What is not is a question for the board to approve a development project, nor is it to commit vta in any particular development project. What this action item is to request staff from a comparative process for the developer and what is emphasized on this point is vta land owner does not have the bility to engage the developer and we want to work with the developer to work with our staff and city of gilroy to work with the community for affordable housing development. I'm framing it this way because this is the first step. After the request for offers, the board would approve that action and down the road, after the work progresses, the city of gilroy will approve it and the board of directors. For background, last year, vta and santa clara county through the county's office for housing entered into a partnership to build affordable housing as a series of vta sites. This is achoice that we talked with the board a year before that that the market as slowed down and with this measure a funding this is an opportunity for vta funding rather than sit on its han hands and do affordable housing projects. The county is providing measure a funds for predevelopment as well as land cost for affordable housing developers. I want to emphasize that when we are talking about the buildable issue, thecountying has -- has been funding $200,000 for each housing project and the staff has been emphasizing all departments to submit heir applications. Applications that will come further down the road will still be able to to receive funding, however with a lesser amount and May need to find other funding sources and that creates all kinds of delays in projects to find the funding as well as the ris delays or how that happens.The mou approved authorized four sites, gilroy, berryessa bart station. This graphic describes what'shappening and that covers the content of the transit service. What you see outlined in red the property that vta owns. What you see above that is the track areas, the areas that caltrain owns. To talk for a moment what we are envisioning is the program and from 1. 5 to two acres. In response to some of the discussions and conversations with mayor blankley and gilroy, if we proceed with projects, we will proceed with all the parking spaces and what that means is through designing transit parking as parking development, also any existing parking lot tends to be inefficient and opportunities for greater efficiency of what you already have. We are in a situation where down the road inf this project occurs, this project does not have an impact on that because we'll make sure we end up with the ame number of spaces after that.With respect to transit service, gilroy and rail they have gone through their process and high-speed rail is going to provide stations and all what is needed for high speed stations. The other thing is thetransportation in monterey county is to create caltrain from salinas to gilroy and back. That project will use a little bit of land to support that activity, but it will not generate any parking gland because the riders will come from salinas. Then there is the request about the future of cal tran. As the board knows, there were prior to the pandemic three trains and the current train agreement allow a maximum f five trains. In that scenario, given that the current usage of the parking lot for the transit riders before the pandemic was less than the half of capacity, we are sure that the amount of caltrain that it has, would be sufficient time for time 49 and that will raise the question of what will happen in the future for caltrain and as you know, that call the for the electrification and the high-speed rail project we have also heard that even if high-speed rail does not occur, that many work to find funding sources to elect -- electrified caltrain service. Theelectrified caltrain service is going to require a different facility and to be able to deal with the station facility and design. Our approach has been at a very conceptual level to keep the same amount of parking we have now and would be a same process and identify funding to occur and we believe with a remaining parking area and dealing with parking structures and high demand transit stations with projects in the future with electrified caltrain for a structure for 3,000 spaces. If we got creative and thought about additional ideas of how we sort of worked into areas to the north, it could be a much larger number than that. The point being that we believe that t this point, even though there is no plan for anything that mighthappen that this approach does preserve the option for thousands of future arking spaces for caltrainelectrification and there will be a need to address hat because even with this project, there is not enough parking for electrified future. I would like to turn it over to jessie to talk about this community and what we heard both positive and negative and what our process is going forward.Thank you, ron. in the gm report at the April vta board meeting you heard about the success of vta's robust meeting at the vta site reaching audiences of over 300 community members, introductory visioningmeeting were held in english and spanish. Our last meeting was translated live in both languages so that all community members had the opportunity to provide and access realtime feedback. In these meetings, we heard about gilroy's significant need about affordable housing directly from the community, we heard about the desire to create a future transit plaza ith room for gathering and community events and desire for exercise facilities and child care and parking, building massing, height and the need for adequatemanagement control. In addition to the transit stakeholder engagement that ron had mentioned previously, we met with city management and elected. The leadership expanded our recommendation to include language regarding the maintenance of the existing transit parking at the site in the offering as ron has mentioned. A few ideas for maintaining transit parking including adding additional transit parking to the parking podium, parking with the redesign bus access along street frontage and identifying parkingsolutions and we began discussions with the sister transit agencies on the need for a joint planning effort for future transit improvements. The request for offers processed, the county office already competed with a round with four qualified affordable housing developers. The offer will be for 100% affordable housing project. Income evels for extremely low-income, very low-income and low income households earning upto 80% of area median income. The developer would be required to work with vta to maintain existing transit parking count. Vta and the county and the review panel along with representation from the gilroycommunity will collectively evaluate offers and come back to respective governing body for this evaluation.This slide on schedule notes that we are at the very beginning stage of this overall process. There will be two more opportunities for the vta board to review and approve the offering and final project details after the developer works and we receive standard developer review and permit approvals from the city ofgilroy. The city of gilroy has land use authority over the project and will provide final approval. The developer will go through the process with the lead agency. I'm going pass this back to ron on staff's recommendations.Thank you. one thing I would like to discuss is and i'm discussing this with agencies nd we have a real vision to increase transit centers, more modes of transit and increases more ridership n that area. We also need to agree that also requires additional parking to support that ridership. And finally that ability to integrate transient oriented development and parking in those stations facilities is how you create a destination that attracts transit riders. We believe the choice in front of the board right now stop and go in one or two directions where we have a future vision of what we want the future to look like. The first is a staff's recommendation that based on the dye dire housing emergency we have with the county which is to work with the agencies to craft a viable ousing project to ensure the office of transit planning and we would not bring a proposal back to the vta board unless we felt that was the case with our transit agencypartners. The alternative scenario, would be to not do that. That would be a choice to decide that we are willing to sit on this site hat has less than ransient uses and funding this electrified future in whatever timeframe that might be. With that, staff's recommendations because the consistent with vta's todd e -policy and meeting the identified needs as supported with many residents in the city is to ask to board to authorize the offer for the center in conjunction with the office of county housing for our mou for measure a funds. That ends our presentation and we are happy to answer any questions.Chair hendricks: thank you ron and jessie. Before I go to our public comments, I want to say that i'm the cities association representative on the measure a committee. I don't think there is any conflict with me being able to speak and deal with this. Member simitian, you had your hand up.Just a quick question whenever it's appropriate, Mr. Chair. Is this a good time or do you want to go to public comment?I will go to public comment but you can speak first.I would rather defer to the public then back to comment.Okay. we can go to the public speakers and we'll start with mayor blankley and then public speakers.Before we start with the public speakers, I want to note that we received some written public comment from the following individuals and it has been uploaded to the portal. Zachary hilton, mary blankley, gilroy business association, david mayor and mark turn earn #er and ridley.We are going to give the mayor two minutes.Thank you, board members, I speak not as myself but on behalf of the city of gilroy and gilroy city council that you vote to request not to authorize this todd at this time. The letter I submitted is included in your packet. I continue to advocate for transit service and something that gilroy doesn't have and will never had by the compromises to todd. And what we are is underserved. To refer to transit parking is under utilized that would fuss exist an opportunity to use this transit. For gilroy it's one bus. We are building housing,400 affordable housing units all over the city. This is more than this todd has proposed to uild and this is meeting the ami and we need this transit service that we do not have and we have mixed levels in with other housing. And highway congestion gets worse, a detriment not only for gilroy commuters but othercommuters on the 101 northbound and those wanting to breathe a lot cleaner air. There is going to be transit riders parking in business spaces. After four years of time and energy, I represented gilroy for transit service, this todd proposal feels like vta is shirking its responsibility for transit and using housing tohide it. Please do not vanity this housing, it brings housing at the expense of transit that we are still waiting for, thank you.Good evening, board members, my name is rbecca, of the ity council. I would like to speak of the transient oriented development station. I ask that you do not delay this. Our community is in dire need of extreme low-income housing. Hundreds of local community members participated in informational meetings aboutthis project and the question that most of them asked was where do I sign up and how do I get on the waiting list. I understand that some in my community are concerned about the loss of parking and possibleinconvenience thereof, but many more would rather walk a couple blocks to park than to be forced in the central valley like so many others do to find affordable housing. Please do not delay this. Thank you.Roland, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you, in one minute, i'm going to getstraight to the point. This is the latest chapter on the attack by the vta. Let's look at the lies and the deceit and the broken promises. The ntire parking lot is gone. They also got rid of the child care center and the 75 dedicated parking spaces. They were supposed to build that parking structure. I'm asking two things, number one t board needs to get caltrain and sell these plots. And second, to direct staff to stop -- focusing on the 34 acres and 1200 empty parking spaces surrounding the santa teresa light-rail station.Thank you.Eugene, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: good evening, board members, it's now9:13 p. M. . I want to echo what several of the other speakers said. Vta I think really needs to work more with other agencies like san benito and improve around the gilroy transit center. There is only several other neighborhood bus centers and operate once an hour and with gilroy clearly those bus options need to be improved in order to serve those areas and especially with the parking. This is a consequence of vtafrankly pushing bart above a lot of other new projects such as the need faior other service such as transit service. Rethink this project little bit and have more developers.Next is tessa, blair and zach.Tessa, go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: yes, thank you very much. Well, one of my big concerns with gilroy is that the caltrain has not been lectrified through gilroy like the mayor said withpollution that is really bad to keep that diesel. That's why we have to real on measure b and reducing our bart, at least and really making sure we get a rid of that diesel to gilroy and even increase the amount oftrips that once it gets electrified. I think it's making that decision to not go away with the electrification ofcaltrain very quickly. You say it's happening. It needs to happen 20 years ago and that's one issue and the issue of transient oriented development for economic gain that we really need to always be thinking aboutreducing our fossil fuel.> blair, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: hi, blair bateman. I offered on the consent calendar, I didn't ean it as rude but about eminent domain issues that we have to go through with san jose. For this issue, I worry about the parking spaces. 3,000 is a lot to offer. I think precovid, we were really trying to limit the parking spaces and rely on public transit needs and how we work on that issue. By 2029, the mtc has serious serious mixed income ideas for the future and how that mixes into regular housing. You know, can we talk about 20%, 30%, ami along with 15 and 80% ami housing. We tried to talk about it today. Thank you.Rebecca, please go ahead when you are ready.Okay, we'll move on. zach, please go ahead when you are ready.Good evening, vta board, chair, staff and the public. I'm zach, city council member. Many that live and work near public transportation keep the road clean and create investments for the community and housing options and we encourage the existing and proposed developments to incorporate tdm measures where such measures will result in additional housing and that will allow future residents that don't owncars. Thank you.Rebecca? please accept the unmute and go ahead when you are ready. You should be able to talk now.Okay, it looks like she May be having some technical difficulties. That's all of our public speakers.Chair hendricks.. i'm going to close our public speakers on this and back to member simitian.Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wonder through the chair, could I ask a quick question of mayor blankley, please?I think we can allow that o happen.Thank you.Mayor blankley, if you are still with us.I'm right here.Thank you so much. I noticed in the letter we have from on & on behalf of the city that the bottom line is in the final paragraph that says the city requests that vta board direct vta staff to coordinate with gilroy staff and counsel to identify a process that enables counsel to have the most pertinent information to havethe most important policy information. I think that is asking for a delay for a period of time to allow staff to roll of their sleeve and work more closely with the city. Am I getting that right?Yes, f you look at the first line that is exactly what it says is requesting to delay action on the item.For my colleagues and for you, i'm trying to thread the needle here and supportive of transient oriented development quite frankly but it's clear to me that we haven't got a lot of trust right now and people arebeing polarized in the request for proposals. How much time do we have right now, some modest time to communicate.With our staff, it's not to go with this developer. They would rather be addressing some of these things now and that's what the city council would like as well because of the impacts because I like you agree, Isupport transient oriented development too. It's just in gilroy's case there is no transit. It's without thetransit.I heard that loud and clear and i'm going to ask this question directly. Is two months enough o solve this and get an agreement?Yeah, if staff actually makes the contact with gilroy. Yup.Got it.Thank you, Mr. Chair and thank you, madam mayor. To staff, what is two months in the way of the project timeline other than cost us two months which I understand is obvious?I think that what two months means that we do push things out a little bit. If we don't have other delays, I think most would agree, we can probably work within that timeline. I think the important point tounderstand about this is that we absolutely, we've been talking to city staff and we want to engage with them, but the nature of the discussion is to have a discussion about how to frame these issues for gilroy for the office to be dealing with in two months. We can't afford to delay this project because there areagency that have promised these projects and without having this agency to discuss what works nd doesn't work and the contents of spending together and we could wait two months but ultimately in two months, we can come up with some framework for how to address these issues of concerns to bring the developer who ultimately has to negotiate these issues with the city, with the ommunity and with vta.With the chair's forbearance, I would like to ask for permission for a little back and forth. You are stating that the vta is not able to make that decision and I think that's got gilroy nervous. To the gist of this proposal is hey, we need some parking spaces but we promise to give it back to you but we are not sure because we are not the developer. Is that fair in saying that?Not necessarily, and not about the services but we are making the commitment of replacing those parking spaces. We won't ask the board to approve the project in the future.What's the guarantee that the commitment on the parking spaces can or will be met, will that be in a guarantee to go out for offers. I think the city is skeptical and I understand i, time passes, people change,commitments that were made May be forgotten. What's their guarantee? I know they are not buying the toasting here,The requirement is the parking. That's not part of the vta and this developer. So that is what we will say upfront. The other guarantee, he back end is we will not bring a project back to the board if we have not met that criterion and if we come back with a board approval for a project that does not have thatreplacement of the parking, I would expect the vta board to reject that proposal.Well, i'm going offer, one more thing, i'm going to ask this as a question, I don't think there is any guarantee that there is high-speed rail going to arrive in gilroy anytime soon. Is that a correct assumption on my part?Yes, there are a few opinions and I don't venture that it will be high-speed rail.Ten years after the basis for this plan, we still don't have a mile of functional track and long over due in terms of the progress made. So, for a project that frankly doesn't even have a funding source the get to gilroy now let alone a real business plan, I think using that as the foundation for notions for what can and can't happen or should or shouldn't happen under cuts frankly the persuasive power of any argument you might be making. I will move two months delay and direct staff to work in good faith to hear and respond to concerns from the city of gilroy and to return with this item at that time and I had one more thing to say if I can get a second.I will second that.Thank you, board member bert. for the staff, here is what I would say, it's clear to me that people are already polarized and you May say it not fair, but it's clear that it's true. If we are going forward with thisdevelopment on the development partner, there needs to be community engagement. We don't want litigation and for the city of gilroy. You May not get the feelings of this project being reasonable. But feelings are facts and the as a matter of fact, they feel this way right now. So I would like to see in a few months to change those feelings based on the way our city interacts with one another, and I will let it go at that and ask for an aye vote.Mr. Chair, if I May clarify something. I'm sorry if I misinterpreted by saying that this is linking high rail withthis proposal.Glen, you are muted.Thank you. before we go to a vote, we'll go through the rest of our colleague comments. So memberconstantine.Thank you, chair. a quick question regarding your presentation. You are stating the city of gilroy still needsto approve the project. What did you mean by that?I think this is sometimes a confusion for many because when you go back to the authority, we do not require local approval for transit projects. If we have to get the projects through, it might affect the project and in a building kind of fashion, that does not apply to today. We have to for all of our projects we do, get entitlements from planning approval just like in which they wish to do a project.Thank you very much for that clarification. And in regards to the rfo, what is the timeframe from theissuance to receiving a competitive article?Jessie, do you ant to respond on that?Yeah, so we would issue an rfo and anticipate that we would have responses from the short list from the office of supportive housing within approximately three months period of time. The evaluation panel would take some time as I mentioned necessary presentation. We always do include a community based member of our panel to help come to a consensus on our recommendations to the board. But we would anticipate that after issuance of an r o, we would likely be back to board with a recommendation within 4-6 months.Thank you very much. that renders my questions moot. I would ask the motioner for a friendly amendment that we move forward with the rfo, based on the act that it would take such an exorbitant amount of time to allow for both sides to come to an agreement and that way we won't be pushing off a roject that has a time frame right now from 3-6 months pushing it further by 2 months if that's acceptable.It's not. I take the point that two months delay is two months delay, but I also think sometimes you need to go slow before you can go fast and this is one of those times. I think we have some relationshiprepairing to do and unanswered questions answered. And if the city feels jammed, it's going to go down from tere. So I will ask that we ask for an aye vote.I believe that is unfortunate especially if all sides are in favor of transient oriented development to slow it down. I don't see how either side cannot see that as not genuine. But I would have a problem thensupporting this without at least trying to save some time. Thank you, chair.Thank you. member bert?I have a question on the measure a funding and perhaps supervisor simitian and chavez would be best able to answer it.I understand that the measure allowed for a range of affordable housing but in the first years since its passage, the board of supervisors had restricted the funding, my understanding towards housing that would transition homeless residents into permanent housing. Has the board changed their policy on the allocation methodology for measure a funds?Supervisor simitian, May I provide an answer to that?Go ahead.The initial bond asked for $900 million, up to $50 million for new buyers, 100 million for low-income housing and then approximately 700 million for extremely low-income housing and those numbers haven't changed and that's what the board accepted. I think where we have perhaps nibbled around the edges is on strategies to utilize that money, but the numbers have not changed.Through the chair, supervisor chavez, are you talking about workforce housing?That's right. it was intended to deal with vehicle miles travels.We had $50 million for are one project, I think in your district supervisor chavez that has already been approved nd looking for more projects so that vast bulk of 100 million is available for additional housing, is that correct?Yes.I hope that answers board member bert's questions.Chair hendricks.. what we have seen from the other side of the perspective is affordable housing is really hard and even though this county is putting this money in, affordable projects has to get all the other kind of funding with it. The county money doesn't make it all happen right away. It's getting it done and the taxcredits and even when you have a large part of money to try to help with this, it takes a long time and it's hard to get it started. Back to you, pat.Thank you. know, I understand that. And how the measure a dollars are leveraged often with other local dollars. I'm fully aware of that. Thank you.> was that all your questions?It is.Member liccardo?I wish I can understand better what the results might be. If you are willing to describe. It seems staff hasmade some concessions with regard to parking. Can you help us better understand what's still being discussed?Certainly. staff is offering this one to one parking replacement. The 470 paces that exist, they are saying that even though this development will cover 245 of them, that they will find ways to rearrange the bays that the buses drive in and put some parking underground for the residents to use such that when the todd is done, there will still be 471 transit spaces. The problem i'm having or what i'm trying to suggest is we all know being on our respective city councils is we estimate per parking spaces per residential unit, they often come with far more vehicles than you estimate. So what this puts gilroy in is you have up to 150units that will have an estimate of one or two parking spaces per and May come with four or five vehicles and you end up with people parking in transit spaces and this will be on vta property that the city can't even enforce or tow away. Vta is also using a certain percentage, like 20%, estimating that these residentswho do have cars, up to 20% of them will drive their cars to work and free up their own parking spaces for a transit rider. These are assumptions that can't be relied upon and beyond that, if it includes a bus, is going to force transit riders to park on the street and this is in our downtown area. This is in downtown and the problem is the space is not that large to begin with and you are asking us to wait for trail and we don't have transit and we are still waiting for.Is it fair to say you have no objection to the amount of housing and the affordable housing?Correct. no objection at all. it's just the location. That it's in our case, it's an opportunity cost. You are asking us to trade, yeah, put the the transit center for the housing. No objection whatsoever to thehousing. We are building, we have 400 units going right now in affordable housing.Thank you very much.It looks like a bunch of people still have their hands up. I'm going to ron.Thank you, chair. I just want to point out that with respect to the todd projects, the transit projects we are talking about. The parking requirements is set by the city with respect to the housing. So that is somethingthat is saying to me, we are advocating what that change for a number is and the people studying affordable housing in the bay area and the cities that require parking for projects, there are many hundreds of under utilized parking spaces that are many millions of dollars that were spent to build that are not being used. I'm not saying this is a situation hre, but my point is to clarify is what is the appropriate amount of todd parking.Chair hendricks: before we go back around, I will make a couple of comments. Member simitian stated that this should be around the project and that's what we've got, and gilroy says, we don't want to get thedeveloper involved and vta states it should be involved and to me that's at the rub of being able to put it together. I can see to wait two months. There are the parameters and each side has a different vision for how the process should operate. Again, I could support this motion. I think we want to try to work with members of our city that make-up this body. I don't think we want to say, the heck with somebody and let's not do that. I'm a little bit concerned that at the end of oh -- two months, we might be back and twoways to engage in the process and to discuss the way you bring the two pieces together. With that, member constantine.I would like to make a substitute motion that we could go with the rfo and however then so with supervisor simitian's motion and to continue with the rfo process.There is a substitute motion and is there a second?I heard yes but I didn't know who.I thought that was member peralez.Yes, I seconded i.Do you have anything more to say about your motion?Well, I like what you said as far as having deliverables. I don't know how to go about that. I agree with you, I don't want to go with the two months and not have an answer, but at least if we are going through the rfo process, I know we have between 3-5 months so that will give us a little bit of a cushion on. I agree with you. There should be some benchmarks some agreeables.Member liccardo?Member, could just ask, still have land use authority and don't you still hold all the cards about parking ratios?Yes, it would be really great if our staff had been part of this. The community meetings that have been going on are just with the residents that show up. There is no engagement with the city to understand what the city council's role is in approving the find todd and what process we would be able to utilize.These community meetings they have are not representative of the community because they have not involved us yet.I don't want to suggest that they have. It sounds like the ball has been dropped in that regard or perhapsmiscommunication. It seems you still have land use authority and is it possible we could move ahead and you have the decision about what gets built.If that's what the vta and having its say. I can throw one of my own staff members under the bus that has been under attack and hasn't been saying anything as this has been going. I prefer the delay because Iprefer to understand as any of you would from staff. That's all I can do is ask. The city council approved this request despite the act that two council members called in tonight t majority of the council asked for this delay.Oay, I appreciate your point, as you can imagine, i'm still kind of confused. Thank you.I'm just saying, we are not throwing anybody under the bus.I was throwing.It's a metaphor i'm not willing to use. Member gilmore?Thank you. this is happening very similar to an issue in santa clara where we had city-owned property and it was led by the developer and we didn't have much association or discussions. Our city staff with vta ahead of time about a grandeur vision. It was led by the developer and led to failed project. So I am in favor of member simitian's suggestion of spending a short amount of time on the staff and vta staffworking together in gilroy to understand the project better because if you are noupfront, it will be a better baked project in the future. As short as it maybe, two months is not that go a deal and I hink it will be well worth the effort of a long-term project. Thank you.> ron, you have your hand up.I want to ask member liquid if he wants to add the discussion to his point?That would be fine.Thank you.Good evening, everybody. I just wanted to share. We have reached out to city staff including planning staff, the city administrator prior to our community engagement meeting. We've had numerous meetings with mayor blankley, other city council members, city council members and staff were present at our meetings. We were asked by staff that they not be asked to speak at our meeting, but they were there to participate and listen on feedback. So, we have been engaged and having communications with staff fromthe cities throughout the process.Member simitian, did you still have your hand up to speak?Yes, I think this conversation is proof of the fact that we need some more conversation, and I had some ofthe same concerns ou did, board chair hendricks, about not having any metrics or deliverables, but I think that would put it on us, the board, to try to anticipate what these folks should be talking about. The challenge with these conversations is that people can get defensive in a hurry, they go to their corners in a hurry, that's understandable. But I think it's pretty clear that things are not off to a good start as mayor gilmore just said. I think there is a chance to get back on track and to have a better working relationship.If it starts with did not did so did not did so, that's not very promising. I would like to take some of that stuff off the table and if in two months, we have a better sense of what's clear and frankly I don't think we have that tonight and move forward for a sensible plan. I'm going to ask for a no vote on the substitute motion and an aye vote on the original motion. I think we are going back -- going to regret it.Since supervisor is pushing his point, i'm going to push my point as well. I don't believe that to start the process, that that it's going to push one side one way or the other when we all agreed and said here on zoom and it's recorded that we are all in favor of transient oriented development. It's not that we are fighting the development, it's is that we are arresting # -- arguing over new development and I don't see the reason to stop the process and everyone says two months, on top of the rfo process that can go from 3-5 months, so it's not just two months. So, again, I really don't think that starting the process for something that we are all in favor of is going to be detrimental to the process in talking together. I justdon't see that s an issue. What I do see as an issue is getting affordable housing in the pipeline. And anything we can do to move that forward in this manner especially in this county, I don't think we canhesitate. Thank you, chair.Okay, seeing no other hands up. Elaine, let's do a vote on this, please.Clerk: [roll call]This is member paul, I vote no.Thank you.> motion failed.Chair hendricks.. that motion failed so we are back to the original motion or the two month delay for the parties to try to get together and I think there has been a lot of good discussion about what that mightmean. If there is no other comments from anybody, let's vote on this motion, please.Clerk: [roll call]Otion passed with 11 ayes and one no. Thank you.Chair hendricks.. thank you for everyone involved on this. There is a lot on the table and staff from the city side has a lot of stuff to be able to take out of this as they go use this time that has been set aside for this.Thanks, everybody. I'm going to move on to items 8.8.1 is the general manager's report. I have been waiting to say this all day. Welcome to the vta board as general manager and your first opportunity to give your vta report.9:53 PMGood evening, members of the board. I was going give a little bit of discussion about some of my goals or where I want to go, but I think it's a long night. So i'm just going to go. I will do it in september. For me, alot of my goals, I will reach out to employees. But I want to talk to you about updates this vening and one is the genjuly 18th, we id hold the memorial for the victims of the May 26 event. They were honored from an outpouring of support from union leaders and members from around the country. I want to note the transit agencies who participated in the bay area in the procession. Also the $20 million state allocation for the moneys for financial assistance based on the shooting, although he could not make the memorial, we were notified by state representative cortese, the state legislature approved financial assistance for $20 million to provide multi-beneficial investments for services and also to provide reasonable accommodation to those employees who are not able to return to work. His staff has reached out to us and I will bemeeting with senator cortese in the near future. Also august 22nd, we started the light rail. It goes along first street to the milpitas transit center that serves bart. It's everyday weekdays from 5:30 a. M. To 5:30 p. M. Weekdays. No service fee is being collected. One thing staff is doing to work with our communication staff is we did delay the opening of the 568 from morgan hill and gilroy and we thank those cities for being supportive of us as we move the light rail operators and the rail line. We plan to bring on the 568 very oon as we get the light rail up and running.9:56 PMI do want to let you know we are now at item 8. 1a. I will let austin talk about this. Austin was the coo for vta for a period after the chief operating officer and david hill was appointed, and we really thank him for coming on. He's there to help restore services quickly and carefully. He served in a number of roles for vta as seattle and denver rtd and - dallas. I will turn this forward to you and give you a few moments to speak.9:57 PM> is he there?Yes, austin.9:58 PMCan you hear me?I do apologize. sometimes i'm thwarted by technology. I started as a bus driver in 1974. When I left, I was a deputy director. I was part of the original six people that moved into guadalupe and know this as much as everybody and wrote the original roles and procedures for most of the operating system. And have stayed close. It's been my first transit and closest to my heart. Nd moving on to seattle and responsible for the light rail. I retired several times and most recently in denver. I have been around. I'm sensitive. I was an atu member like pretty much every supervisor in our system, once an atu member. I push a 22 bus up and down el camino for five years and I know the rigors f the job and compassion. I brim familiarity and open and how to understand rail lines and hopefully the workers will trust.10:00 PMI spent an hour-and-a-half at the atu headquarters. I'm not going to set a date but we have a methodology and robert serving as acting member and already worked to getting things going with on boarding with staff along with others. I'm going to bring in the rail activation process.I don't want to get into too much detail but there is a program accepted by the cet and how you bring things back. We'll do it in a manner that is sensitive to our employees and we'll listen and that's mycommitment. I'm going to work with my employees to go forward.10:01 PM> ron, will you talk about where you are on bringing back the employees.It was very critical for on board our staff and a process for safe boarding our board and we on boarded our first two groups and this completes phase 2 because next week we'll be on boarding 140 guadalupe stafffrom this process and this timing is perfect and we'll be getting into inspections from phase 3 and in this process, this phase, is when we'll be able to put on a calendar and it will be phase 1 for this rail opening and this is where austin's expertise comes in and we have concluded phase 2 and bringing on initial staff and ramped it up. Expect 200 of our employees coming in next week.10:02 PMI do want to thank the support of the unions with us because they have been really working very closely and supported bringing back our employees. Each of them have been speaking to their employees and we welcome them back as we bring back each group of employees. It's still a little ways and until we get everybody back, a couple more weeks, but after that, we are going to be ready to move forward on thereopening. That pretty much concludes my report. I just wonder if there are any questions regarding.10:03 PMBefore we go to questions, could we do 8. 1b, government affairs and public comments and any board member comments?Sure. thanks, robert. I have jim to talk about some of the items that have been happening regarding mtc.Jim, i'm going o bring you up.10:04 PMThank you, carol and very quickly. As know, the metropolitan transportation commission, brought up millions of dollars and a portion to the san francisco area. And that was divided into two projects, the first project is about $900 million that will be distributed now and the second tranch $608 million will be allocated in the winter. We are relatively happy to receive $55 million of that amount. And I say relativelyhappy because when you look at the way the money was distributed to mtc, some $259 million came through the san jose uca, that's what that amount turns out. I appreciate member liccardo and othermembers who fought for us and we have a chance for 10% of some of that money associated with that. In the meantime, the senate continues to move forward on the hopeful that we will see some attraction on that in the future. Thank you.10:05 PMCarol, I think that's the end of your stuff.10:06 PMWe'll go to public comment on 8. 1a;b, c.Public speaker: welcome back to the jungle. Thank you vta for restoring the buses even if it's a few in downtown. My question is what would it be for vta to have the buses go to san jose. That would be my first question. What highlights to the entire light rail system. That would be my question.We are doing comments right now.10:07 PMI was done.Okay,Next speaker, please. .Roland, please go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: thank you. Looking at the material that wasnot presented, I do believe if we want to look at the ridership numbers, we should be comparing 2019, not 2020 and the picture might not be as rosie as staff would make it to be. One year in the opening of thebart extension, we are still not seeing ridership numbers. Let me help you with that. If you want to find out more about ms. Gomez, go to youtube and see how she is getting rid of 200 housing units and replace with 1300 bart parking structure which is currently, she promised them 200 riders and these riders are not there. Thank you.10:08 PMMr. Bateman, go ahead when you are ready. Public speaker: h, welcome to the new general manager.Thank you. Thank you for your work on the bus bridge along the first street corridor. It will help a lot. It's our return to consider transportation ideas. The new person sound really interesting. Thank you for the light rail operation. A few things if I could remind of you ideas. My mind is a blank right now. My mind is not allowing me. Thank you very much for your time. I have a lot to say. I hope for positiveness and I hope we can all look for that.10:09 PMI'm going to close the public speaker section and open up to my colleagues for questions.> member constantine?Real quick, I want to welcome austin.There are rider statistics included in the packet. Real quick, I will respond to bradley, if we had moreoperators and more buses w eh would put ore service out there to run the ine along the townsend west. At this time, when we look at service partners that we need at work north corridor demands it otherwiseevery hourly service to run along would probably not provide the service along the northwest corridor. We appreciate his support and would love to have more operators at this time.10:10 PMThank you.That's the end of 8.1. thank you very much again, carolyn and we are happy that you are here.10:11 PMI'm going to the chairperson chairperson's report. We did have the memorial service and I would like to thank everyone who made that event possible. I also want to thank our transportation partners who joined in the procession and on the screen are some of the procession photos. I'm not going to list all the agencies because it's over a page long. Actually i'm being texted. San jose sheriff's departments, san josepolice department, san jose fire department, cms, golden gate transit, sonoma county transit, union city transit, sacramento regional transit, fmta, solano county transit, santa cruz mta, sell # salinas transit and that gives you a sense of the outpouring of support that comes from all the different agencies that were either directly involved with us or wanted to show their support for the families and the victims of thishorrible attack. Thank you very much. That's the end of my public comments. Are there any questions from my colleagues? I'm not seeing any. I'm going to move to 8. 3 items of concern and referral toadministration.10:12 PMDid I skip public comment on my piece?10:13 PMYes.Let's go ahead and let the public piece is.Hi, blair bateman, thank you for allowing me to speak at this time. There were some good practices we had tonight that were positives and hopeful. I'm looking for the positive ideas that are open to technology.If you look at the positive practices that were on our agenda tonight, that's the kind of stuff we need to rally around more and really concentrate n and consider what can help us in our morale at this time andthank you for what you have offered. I have more to say, but gosh darn it, it's slipping my mind. Great meeting. Good luck us in the fall.10:14 PM8.3. items of concern nd referral to the administration. Does anybody have anything? I'm not seeing anybody raise their hands ut I have something. I would like to request to staff to look at and understand what it would mean to require all vta employees and contractors to require the covid-19 vaccination. I'm not asking us to go do it yet. I'm asking staff to go out to look at the legal position of that, what it means for our labor position and practicality to be able to do that. If you can look at that, that would be great.Member bert?I support our request, chair, but I add a request to also evaluate the vaccination or weekly test requirement which is what a lot of cities and government entities seem to be moving toward most immediately and then perhaps the subsequent vaccination for all. But I would be interested in exploring both of those alternatives.10:15 PMOkay, I think staff probably heard you. I see a member of the public has their hand up but I don't see apublic comment piece here. If nothing else, anyone have any announcements? okay. Closed session. There are no closed session for this item, but don't go anywhere because we have a meeting where we are going to go to closed session item. Please don't go anywhere. We are going to start our next meeting. I'm going to adjourn this meeting here at 10:15.10:16 PMI would like to call our special meeting. Do you need to restart recording, elaine?I'm going to call our special meeting that is now called to order at 10:16. Elaine, would you please call the roll.10:17 PMClerk: [roll call]Chair hendricks: during closed session, we are going to be discussing items 21a through b.